{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff8\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f8\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02040503060506020304}New York{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f75\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02040502050505030304}Palatino{\*\falt Book Antiqua};}
{\f97\froman\fcharset0\fprq0{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Baskerville{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f825\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f826\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f828\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f829\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f830\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew){\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f831\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic){\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f832\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f833\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese){\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f1575\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Palatino CE{\*\falt Book Antiqua};}{\f1579\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Palatino Tur{\*\falt Book Antiqua};}{\f1582\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Palatino Baltic{\*\falt Book Antiqua};}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;
\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;
\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs24\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 
\additive \ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}{\*\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\trcbpat1\trcfpat1\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}{\s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 \sbasedon0 \snext15 metin yaz\'fds\'fd;}{\s16\qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs14\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 \sbasedon0 \snext17 
grafik i\'e7i;}{\s17\qj \li227\ri113\sb113\sa113\sl-280\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin113\lin227\itap0 \b\f8\fs18\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 \sbasedon0 \snext18 ayet;}{\s18\qj \li227\ri0\sb113\sa113\sl-280\slmult0
\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin227\itap0 \f8\fs18\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 \sbasedon0 \snext19 al\'fdnt\'fd format\'fd;}{\s19\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sb283\sa57\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\b\f8\fs22\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 \sbasedon0 \snext20 basl\'fdk;}{\s20\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sa57\sl-260\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\i\f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 
\sbasedon0 \snext0 alt basl\'fdk;}{\s21\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tqc\tx4153\tqr\tx8306\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs24\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 \sbasedon0 \snext21 footer;}{\*\cs22 \additive \sbasedon10 page number;}{
\s23\qj \fi340\li0\ri0\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\f8\fs22\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 \sbasedon0 \snext23 Body Text 2;}{\s24\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar
\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs24\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 \sbasedon0 \snext24 header;}{\s25\ql \li0\ri0\sa120\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f8\fs24\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 \sbasedon0 \snext25 \styrsid9585949 Body Text;}{\s26\qc \li0\ri0\sa1440\sl400\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx3355\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\b\f97\fs36\expnd3\expndtw15\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 \snext26 \styrsid9585949 Ch. Head;}{\s27\qr \li567\ri567\sa288\sl200\slmult0\nowidctlpar
\tx708\tx1416\tx2124\tx2832\tx3540\tx4248\tx4956\tx5664\tx6372\tx7080\tx7788\tx8496\tx9204\tx9912\tx10620\tx11328\tx12036\tx12744\tx13452\tx14160\tx14868\tx15576\tx16284\tx16992\tx17700\tx18408\tx19116\tx19824\tx20532\tx21240\tx21948\tx22656
\tx23364\tx24072\tx24780\tx25488\tx26196\tx26904\tx27612\tx28320\faauto\adjustright\rin567\lin567\itap0 \f75\fs18\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 \sbasedon28 \snext28 \styrsid14549122 ind right;}{\s28\qj \li567\ri567\sl280\slmult0
\nowidctlpar\tx708\tx1416\tx2124\tx2832\tx3540\tx4248\tx4956\tx5664\tx6372\tx7080\tx7788\tx8496\tx9204\tx9912\tx10620\tx11328\tx12036\tx12744\tx13452\tx14160\tx14868\tx15576\tx16284\tx16992\tx17700\tx18408\tx19116\tx19824\tx20532\tx21240\tx21948\tx22656
\tx23364\tx24072\tx24780\tx25488\tx26196\tx26904\tx27612\tx28320\faauto\adjustright\rin567\lin567\itap0 \i\f75\fs22\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 \sbasedon25 \snext28 \styrsid14549122 Indent;}}{\*\revtbl {Unknown;}}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid294782\rsid1707507
\rsid2436030\rsid2822717\rsid5133142\rsid5701917\rsid8192636\rsid9068159\rsid9502810\rsid9585949\rsid10033590\rsid10824262\rsid11929961\rsid14224617\rsid14549122\rsid14632570\rsid15409917}{\*\generator Microsoft Word 10.0.2627;}{\info
{\title THE MIRACLE IN THE ANT}{\author HARUN YAHYA}{\operator A A}{\creatim\yr2002\mo10\dy17\hr22\min19}{\revtim\yr2004\mo9\dy2\hr23\min15}{\version12}{\edmins115}{\nofpages81}{\nofwords38867}{\nofchars221544}{\nofcharsws259892}{\vern16437}}
\margl1701\margr1134\margt1418\margb1134 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\hyphhotz0\sprstsp\otblrul\brkfrm\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\sprstsm\truncex\nolead\nospaceforul\msmcap\lytprtmet\hyphcaps0\horzdoc\dghspace120\dgvspace120\dghorigin1701
\dgvorigin1984\dghshow0\dgvshow3\jcompress\viewkind1\viewscale100\nolnhtadjtbl\rsidroot14632570 \fet0\sectd \linex0\headery709\footery709\colsx708\endnhere\titlepg\sectdefaultcl\sftnbj {\footer \pard\plain \s21\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar
\tqc\tx4153\tqr\tx8306\pvpara\phmrg\posxr\posy0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs24\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\field{\*\fldinst {\cs22\insrsid294782 PAGE  }}{\fldrslt {\cs22\lang1024\langfe1024\noproof\insrsid10824262 81}
}}{\cs22\insrsid294782 
\par }\pard \s21\ql \li0\ri360\widctlpar\tqc\tx4153\tqr\tx8306\faauto\adjustright\rin360\lin0\itap0 {\insrsid294782 
\par }}{\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s15\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\b\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par }{\b\f0\fs96\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 THE
\par }{\b\fs96\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 MIRACLE
\par IN THE
\par ANT
\par }{\b\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par }{\b\fs56\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid5133142 HARUN YAHYA}{\fs56\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid5133142 
\par }\pard \s15\qj \li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
\par 
\par }\pard \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 \page First published April 2000
\par Goodword Books, 2000
\par 
\par Distributed by
\par Al-Risala
\par The Islamic Centre
\par 1, Nizamuddin West Market, New Delhi 110 013
\par Tel. 462 5454, 461 1128 Fax. 469 7333, 464 7980
\par e-mail: skhan@vsnl.com
\par http:/ /www.alrisala.org
\par 
\par ISBN 81-87570-13-X
\par 
\par Distributed in U.S.A. by
\par 
\par The Bestsellers \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab Crescent Books
\par 61-38, 168 St. P.O. Box: 650654\tab \tab \tab 2221 Peachtree Road,
\par Fresh Meadows, NY 11365-00654 \tab \tab \tab Suite D109, Atlanta,
\par }{\fs22\lang1031\langfe1055\langnp1031\insrsid294782\charrsid2436030 Tel. 718-359 4861\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab GA 30309
\par Fax. 718-359 4446\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab Tel. 770-662 6970
\par e-mail: akhan72252@aol.com\tab \tab \tab Fax. 404-351 2832
\par 
\par }{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 Distributed in U.K. and Europe by
\par 
\par IPCI: Islamic Vision\tab \tab \tab \tab Alif International
\par 481, Coventry Road,\tab \tab \tab \tab 109 Kings Avenua, Watford,
\par Birmingham}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid9585949  B10 OJS\tab \tab \tab }{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 Hertfordshire WDI 7SB
\par Tel. 0121-773 0137\tab \tab \tab \tab Tel. 01923-240 844
\par Fax. 0121-766 8577\tab \tab \tab \tab Fax. 01923-237 722
\par }{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid9585949 e-mail: info@ipci-iv.co.uk\tab \tab \tab }{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 e-mail: bandali@alif.co.uk
\par 
\par Distributed in U.A.E. by
\par 
\par Dubai Library Distributors\tab \tab \tab \tab Al Patra Bookshop
\par P.O. Box 1526\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab P.O. Box 21235
\par Dubai\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab Sharjah
\par Tel. 04-211949\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab Tel. 06-353499
\par }{\fs22\insrsid294782\charrsid9068159 Fax. 04-225137\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab Fax. 06-352795
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab }{\fs22\insrsid9585949\charrsid9068159  \tab }{\fs22\lang1031\langfe1055\langnp1031\insrsid294782\charrsid9068159 e-mail: salabbai@emirates.net.ae
\par 
\par }\pard \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid10033590 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 Printed in India
\par }\pard \s15\qj \li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 \page }{\b\fs32\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid2436030 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\sl480\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid2436030 \f8\fs24\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\b\f0\fs32\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid2436030\charrsid2436030 ABOUT THE AUTHOR}{
\b\f0\fs32\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid9585949\charrsid2436030 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid9585949 {\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid9585949\charrsid11929961 
\par The author, who writes under the pen-name HARUN YAHYA, was born in Ankara in 1956. Having completed his primary and secondary education in Ankara, he then studied arts at Istanbul's Mimar Sinan University and philosophy at Istanbul University. Since the 1
9
80s, the author has published many books on political, faith-related and scientific issues. Harun Yahya is well-known as an author who has written very important works disclosing the imposture of evolutionists, the invalidity of their claims and the dark 
liaisons between Darwinism and bloody ideologies. 
\par His pen-name is made up of the names "Harun" (Aaron) and "Yahya" (John), in memory of the two esteemed prophets who fought against lack of faith. The Prophet's seal on the cover of the author's books has a 
symbolic meaning linked to their contents. This seal represents the Qur'an as the last Book by Allah and the last word of Him and our Prophet, the last of all the prophets. Under the guidance of the Qur'an and Sunnah, the author makes it his main goal to 
d
isprove each one of the fundamental tenets of godless ideologies and to have the "last word", so as to completely silence the objections raised against religion. The seal of the Prophet, who attained ultimate wisdom and moral perfection, is used as a sign
 of his intention of saying this last word. 
\par All these works by the author centre around one goal: to convey the message of the Qur'an to people, thus encouraging them to think about basic faith-related issues, such as the existence of Allah, His unity and 
the hereafter, and to display the decrepit foundations and perverted works of godless systems. 
\par Harun Yahya enjoys a wide readership in many countries, from India to America, England to Indonesia, Poland to Bosnia, and Spain to Brazil. Some of his books ar
e available in English, French, German, Italian, Portuguese, Urdu, Arabic, Albanian, Russian, Serbo-Croat (Bosnian), Uygur Turkish, and Indonesian, and they have been enjoyed by readers all over the world. 
\par Greatly appreciated all around the world, these w
orks have been instrumental in many people putting their faith in Allah and in many others gaining a deeper insight into their faith. The wisdom, and the sincere and easy-to-understand style employed give these books a distinct touch which directly strike
s
 any one who reads or examines them. Immune to objections, these works are characterised by their features of rapid effectiveness, definite results and irrefutability. It is unlikely that those who read these books and give a serious thought to them can a
n
y longer sincerely advocate the materialistic philosophy, atheism and any other perverted ideology or philosophy. Even if they continue to advocate, this will be only a sentimental insistence since these books have refuted these ideologies from their very
 basis. All contemporary movements of denial are ideologically defeated today, thanks to the collection of books written by Harun Yahya. 
\par There is no doubt that these features result from the wisdom and lucidity of the Qur'an. The author certainly does not 
feel proud of himself; he merely intends to serve as a means in one's search for Allah's right path. Furthermore, no material gain is sought in the publication of these works.
\par Considering these facts, those who encourage people to read these books, which open the "eyes" of the heart and guide them in becoming more devoted servants of Allah, render an invaluable service. 
\par Meanwhile, it would just be a waste of time and energy to propagate books which create confusion in peoples' minds, lead man into ideologi
cal chaos, and which, clearly have no strong and precise effects in removing the doubts in peoples' hearts, as also verified from previous experience. It is apparent that it is impossible for books devised to emphasize the author's literary power rather t
h
an the noble goal of saving people from loss of faith, to have such a great effect. Those who doubt this can readily see that the sole aim of Harun Yahya's books is to overcome disbelief and to disseminate the moral values of the Qur'an. The success, impa
ct and sincerity this service has attained are manifest in the reader's conviction. 
\par One point needs to be kept in mind: The main reason for the continuing cruelty and conflict, and all the ordeals Muslims undergo is the ideological prevalence of disbelief.
 These things can only come to an end with the ideological defeat of disbelief and by ensuring that everybody knows about the wonders of creation and Qur'anic morality, so that people can live by it. Considering the state of the world today, which forces 
people into the downward spiral of violence, corruption and conflict, it is clear that this service has to be provided more speedily and effectively. Otherwise, it may be too late. 
\par It is no exaggeration to say that the collection of books by Harun Yahya ha
ve assumed this leading role. By the Will of Allah, these books will be the means through which people in the 21st century will attain the peace and bliss, justice and happiness promised in the Qur'an. 
\par }{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid10033590\charrsid11929961 
\par }{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid9585949\charrsid11929961 The works of the author include The New Masonic Orde
r, Judaism and Freemasonry, The Disasters Darwinism Brought to Humanity, Communism in Ambush, The Bloody Ideology of Darwinism: Fascism, Islam Denounces Terrorism, The 'Secret Hand' in Bosnia, Behind the Scenes of The Holocaust, Behind the Scenes of Terro
r
ism, Solution: The Morals of the Qur'an, Articles 1-2-3, A Weapon of Satan: Romanticism, Truths 1-2, The Western World Turns to God, The Evolution Deceit, Precise Answers to Evolutionists, Evolutionary Falsehoods, Perished Nations, For Men of Understandin
g
, The Prophet Moses, The Prophet Joseph, The Golden Age, Allah's Artistry in Colour, Glory is Everywhere, The Truth of the Life of This World, Knowing the Truth, Eternity Has Already Begun, Timelessness and the Reality of Fate, The Dark Magic of Darwinism
,
 The Religion of Darwinism, The Collapse of the Theory of Evolution in 20 Questions, Allah is Known Through Reason, The Qur'an Leads the Way to Science, The Real Origin of Life, Consciousness in the Cell, A String of Miracles, The Creation of the Universe
,
 Miracles of the Qur'an, Self-Sacrifice and Intelligent Behaviour Models in Animals, The End of Darwinism, Deep Thinking, Never Plead Ignorance, The Green Miracle Photosynthesis, The Miracle in the Cell, The Miracle in the Eye, The Miracle in the Spider, 
T
he Miracle in the Gnat, The Miracle in the Ant, The Miracle of the Immune System, The Miracle of Creation in Plants, The Miracle in the Atom, The Miracle in the Honeybee, The Miracle of Seed, The Miracle of Hormone, The Miracle of the Termite, The Miracle
 of the Human Being, The Miracle of Man's Creation, The Miracle of Protein, The Secrets of DNA.
\par }{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid10033590\charrsid11929961 
\par }{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid9585949\charrsid11929961 The author's childrens books are: Children Darwin Was Lying!, The World of Animals, The Splendour in the Skies, The World of Our Little Friends: The Ants, Honey
bees That Build Perfect Combs, Skillful Dam Builders: Beavers. 
\par }{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid10033590\charrsid11929961 
\par }{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid9585949\charrsid11929961 
The author's other works on Quranic topics include: The Basic Concepts in the Qur'an, The Moral Values of the Qur'an, Quick Grasp of Faith 1-2-3, Ever Thought About the Truth?, Crude Understa
nding of Disbelief, Devoted to Allah, Abandoning the Society of Ignorance, The Real Home of Believers: Paradise, Knowledge of the Qur'an, Qur'an Index, Emigrating for the Cause of Allah, The Character of the Hypocrite in the Qur'an, The Secrets of the Hyp
o
crite, The Names of Allah, Communicating the Message and Disputing in the Qur'an, Answers from the Qur'an, Death Resurrection Hell, The Struggle of the Messengers, The Avowed Enemy of Man: Satan, The Greatest Slander: Idolatry, The Religion of the Ignoran
t
, The Arrogance of Satan, Prayer in the Qur'an, The Importance of Conscience in the Qur'an, The Day of Resurrection, Never Forget, Disregarded Judgements of the Qur'an, Human Characters in the Society of Ignorance, The Importance of Patience in the Qur'an
,
 General Information from the Qur'an, The Mature Faith, Before You Regret, Our Messengers Say, The Mercy of Believers, The Fear of Allah, The Nightmare of Disbelief, Jesus Will Return, Beauties Presented by the Qur'an for Life, A Bouquet of the Beauties o
f
 Allah 1-2-3-4, The Iniquity Called "Mockery", The Mystery of the Test, The True Wisdom According to the Qur'an, The Struggle with the Religion of Irreligion, The School of Yusuf, The Alliance of the Good, Slanders Spread Against Muslims Throughout Histor
y
, The Importance of Following the Good Word, Why Do You Deceive Yourself?, Islam: The Religion of Ease, Enthusiasm and Excitement in the Qur'an, Seeing Good in Everything, How do the Unwise Interpret the Qur'an?, Some Secrets of the Qur'an, The Courage of
 Believers, Being Hopeful in the Qur'an, Justice and Tolerance in the Qur'an, Basic Tenets of Islam, Those Who do not Listen to the Qur'an.
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782 
\par }{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid9585949 
\par }{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid5701917 
\par }{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid9585949 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\ql \li0\ri0\sa120\sl400\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx3355\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid2436030 \b\f97\fs36\expnd3\expndtw15\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {
\f0\fs32\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid2436030\charrsid2436030 TO THE READER}{\f0\fs32\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid9585949\charrsid2436030 
\par }\pard \s26\qc \li0\ri0\sa120\sl400\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx3355\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid9585949 {\f0\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid9585949\charrsid14224617 
\par }\pard\plain \s25\ql \li0\ri0\sa120\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid9585949 \f8\fs24\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid9585949\charrsid14224617 
The reason why a special chapter is assigned to collapse of the theory of evolution is that this theory constitutes the basis of all anti-spiritual philosophies. Since Darwinism rejects the fact of creation, and therefore the existence of Allah, during th
e
 last 140 years it has caused many people to abandon their faith or fall into doubt. Therefore, showing that this theory is a deception is a very important duty, which is strongly related to the deen. It is imperative that this important service is render
ed to all people. Some of our readers may find the chance to read only one of our books. Therefore, we think it appropriate to spare a chapter for a summary of this subject.
\par Another point to be stressed is related to the content of the book. In all the books of the author, faith-related issues a}{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid9585949 re told in the light of the Qur\rquote }{
\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid9585949\charrsid14224617 anic verses and people are invited to learn Allah\rquote s verses and live by them. All the subjects that concern Allah\rquote 
s verses are explained in such a way as to leave no room for doubt or question marks in the reader\rquote s mind.
\par The sincere, plain and fluent style employed ensures that everyone of every age and from every social group can easily understand the books. This effective and lucid way of recounting makes the books read quickly. Even th
ose people who rigorously reject spirituality are influenced by the facts recounted in these books and cannot refute the truthfulness of their contents.
\par This book and all the other works of the author can be read by individuals or studied in a group at a t
ime of conversation. The reading of the books by a group of readers willing to profit from them will be useful in the sense that readers can relate their own reflections and experiences to one another.
\par In addition, it will be a great service to the deen to
 contribute to the presentation and reading of these books, which are written solely for the good pleasure of Allah. All the books of the author are extremely convincing. For this reason, for those who want to communicate the deen to other people, one of 
the most effective methods is to encourage them to read these books. 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid9585949 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par }\pard \s15\qj \li0\ri0\sb120\sa120\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid9585949 {\b\fs52\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid9585949 
\par }\pard \s15\qc \fi283\li0\ri0\sb120\sa120\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid9585949 {\b\fs52\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid5701917 
\par 
\par }{\b\fs52\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 CONTENTS
\par }\pard \s15\qc \fi283\li0\ri0\sb120\sa120\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid9585949 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
\par }{\fs28\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 Preface
\par Introduction
\par Social Life
\par Communication in Society
\par Ant Species
\par Symbiosis
\par Defence and War Tactic
\par Feeding and Hunting
\par Conclusion
\par }\pard \s15\qc \li0\ri0\sb120\sa120\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\tx8080\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid8192636 {\fs28\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid10033590    }{\fs28\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
The Evolution Deceit}{\fs28\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid8192636 
\par }\pard \s15\qc \li0\ri0\sb120\sa120\sl480\slmult1\widctlpar\tx8080\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5133142 {\fs28\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid8192636\charrsid8192636 Notes}{
\b\fs36\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 \page PREFACE}{\b\fs36\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782 
\par }\pard \s15\qc \li0\ri0\sb120\sa120\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\tx8080\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid8192636 {\fs28\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid5133142\charrsid8192636 
\par }\pard \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
In this book we are going to tell you about a creature that you know quite well, that you meet everywhere without actually giving it much attention, that is highly skillful, highly social and highly intelligent - "The Ant". Our aim is to rev
iew the lives full of miracles of these minute creatures that are never of any significance in our daily lives. 
\par Technology, collective work, military strategy, advanced communications network, an astute and rational hierarchy, discipline, perfect city planning\'85
 These are fields where human beings may not always be successful enough, but where the ants always are. When you look at these creatures, which are fully armed to defeat tough rivals and to endure the difficult conditions of nature, you may think th
at all of them are identical. However, each species of the ant genus \endash  and there are thousands of them \endash 
 has, in fact, different characteristics. We believe that these creatures that have the highest population in the world may open up new horizons for us 
within the framework of the characteristics referred to above. This book will reveal to us the special and }{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid9585949\charrsid9585949 marvellous}{
\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949  world of ants. We shall witness the things these ant communities succeed with their tiny bodies and witness that there is absolutely no di
fference between their fossils, the oldest of which is about 80 million years old, and their counterparts living today, that run to approximately 8800 species. 
\par As we explore the special world of ants, this perfect system will earn our admiration and incre
ase the need for thinking and investigating. At the same time, we shall see the mistakes in the theory of evolution and witness Allah's immaculate creation, which is a tremendously important work. In the Qur'an, the type of person who thinks about nature 
and thus recognizes the omnipotence of Allah is praised as a model for those who believe. The verses below explain this point fully:}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782 
\par }{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid2436030\charrsid9585949 
\par }\pard\plain \s17\qj \li227\ri113\sb113\sa113\sl-280\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin113\lin227\itap0 \b\f8\fs18\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
In the creation of the heavens and the earth, and the alternation of night and day, there are indeed signs for men of under
standing: men who celebrate the praises of Allah, standing, sitting, and lying down on their sides, and contemplate the wonders of creation in the heavens and the earth, (saying): "Our Lord! You have not created all this in vain! Glory be to You! Give us 
salvation from the penalty of the Fire." (Surat Al'Imran, 190-191)}{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782 
\par }\pard\plain \s18\qj \li0\ri0\sb113\sa113\sl-280\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid2436030 \f8\fs18\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid2436030\charrsid2436030 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
We hope that this book causes its readers to think more deeply on and to feel admiration for the superior power and unequaled art of creation of Allah, Who has made all things. 
\par }\pard \s15\qc \li0\ri0\sb480\sa120\sl600\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid10033590 {\b\fs36\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 \page INTRODUCTION
\par }\pard \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
The living beings that have the densest population in the world are the ants. For every seven hundred million ants that come into this world there are only 40 new-born human beings. There is a lot of other amazing information to learn about th
ese creatures. 
\par The ants, one of the most "social" groups among the insect genus, live as societies called "colonies", which are extremely well "organized." Their organization is of such an advanced order that it may be said that in this respect they have 
a civilization similar to that of humans. 
\par The ants care for their babies, protect their colonies and fight as they produce and store their food. There are even colonies that do "tailoring", that deal in "agriculture" or "animal husbandry". These animals, 
with their very strong communication network, are so superior as not to be compared to any other organism, with respect to social organization and specialization. 
\par In our day, researchers with superior intelligence and education are working day and night i
n think tanks formed to formulate successful social organizations and to find lasting solutions to social and economic problems. Ideologues have been producing social models for centuries. Yet when we look at the world in general, no ideal socio-economic 
s
ocial order has so far been reached, in spite of all these intensive efforts. Since the concept of order in human societies has always been based on competition and individual interests, a perfect social order has never been possible. The ants on the othe
r hand, have perpetuated the social system that is ideal for them for millions of years right down to the present day. 
\par Then how can these minute creatures form such an order? This is a question for which an answer must certainly be sought. 
\par Evolutionists, when trying to answer this question, claim that ants evolved 80 million years ago from "Tiphiidae", which is an archaic genus of wasps, and that they started socializing 40 million years ago \endash 
 suddenly, "at their own discretion" - and that they constitute 
the highest level of the evolution of insects. However, they do not in any way explain the causes and the process of development of this socialization. The basic mechanism of evolution requires living beings to fight with each other to the end, for their 
s
urvival. Therefore, each genus and every individual within that genus can think of only itself and its own offspring (Why and how it started thinking of its offspring is another dead end for Evolution, but we are skipping this point for now). It is, of co
urse, unanswered how this type of a "law of evolution" can form a social system with sacrifice right at its core. 
\par The questions to be answered are not limited to these. Could these creatures whose nerve cells for one million of them only weigh 20 grams, ha
ve adopted the resolution to socialize in groups "just like that"? Or could they have got together to set the rules for this socializing after adopting such a resolution? Even if we accept that they could, would all of them obey this new system without ex
ception? Have they formed an advanced social order by founding colonies with millions of members after overcoming all these seeming impossibilities?
\par Then how did a "caste system" emerge out of this struggle? First, this question has to be answered: How has 
the difference between the queen and the worker developed? Evolutionists at this point will say that a group among the workers abandoned working and developed a physiology different from the worker ants by going through genetic variations over a long peri
o
d of time. However, we are then faced with the question of how the said "would be queens" were nourished throughout this transformation period. The queen ants do not look for food. They are fed with food brought by the workers. Some workers may have seen 
themselves as "queens", so how and why have other workers accepted this hierarchy? Furthermore, why have they consented to feed this queen? The "struggle for life" that they are in, according to "evolution", requires that they only think of themselves. 

\par All
 insects spend most of their time in looking for food. They find and they eat food, then they get hungry again and go off to find more food. They also run from danger. When we accept evolution, we also have to accept that the ants too lived "individually"
 
once upon a time, but that one day, millions of years ago, they decided to become socialized. The question then arises as to how they "decided" "to form" this social order without any common communication between themselves, because, according to evolutio
n, communication is a consequence of socializing. Furthermore, the question of how they have developed the genetic mutation required for this socialization has no scientific explanation whatsoever. 
\par All these arguments take us to a single point: To claim th
at the ants started "socializing" one day millions of years ago is to break all the basic rules of logic. The only possible explanation is as follows: The social order, of which we shall see the details in the following chapters, was created along with th
e ants; and this system has not varied since the first ant colony on earth, until today. 
\par When mentioning the bees who have a social order similar to that of the ants, Allah states in the Qur'an that this social order has been "revealed" to them:}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782 
\par }{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid2436030\charrsid9585949 
\par }\pard\plain \s17\qj \li227\ri113\sb113\sa113\sl-280\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin113\lin227\itap0 \b\f8\fs18\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 And your 
Lord revealed to the bee: "Build dwellings in the mountains and the trees and also in the structures which men erect. Then eat from every kind of fruit and travel the paths of your Lord, which have been made easy for you to follow." From inside them comes
 a drink of varying colours, containing healing for mankind. There is certainly a sign in that for people who reflect. (Surat an-Nahl, 68-69)}{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782 
\par }\pard\plain \s18\qj \li227\ri0\sb113\sa113\sl-280\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin227\itap0\pararsid2436030 \f8\fs18\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid2436030\charrsid2436030 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
The verse conveys the message that everything the honey bees do is governed by a "revelation" Allah has given to t
hem. Accordingly, all the "homes", that is, hives - and therefore the entire social order in these hives - and all the work they perform to make honey, are made possible by an inspiration Allah has given them. 
\par When we look at ants, we see that things are 
no different for them either. Allah has inspired in them a social order also and they abide by it absolutely. This is the reason why each group of ant performs the duty assigned to it perfectly with absolute self-surrender and does not strive for more. 

\par An
d this is the law of nature. There is no random and coincidental "fight for survival" in nature as purported by evolution and there has never been one. On the contrary, all living creatures eat the "food" specified for them and perform duties Allah assign
ed to them. Because "there is no living being He (Allah) does not hold by the forelock and inspect." (Surah Hud, 56) and "He (Allah) is the one who gives food." (Surat adh-Dhariyat, 58) 
\par }\pard \s15\qc \fi284\li0\ri0\sb480\sa120\sl480\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5133142 {\fs36\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 \page }{
\b\fs36\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 SOCIAL LIFE
\par }\pard \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 We mentioned that ants live in colonies and that a perfec
t division of labour exists amongst them. When we take a closer look at their systems, we shall also see that they have a pretty interesting social structure. It will also come to our attention that they are capable of sacrifice at a much higher level tha
n humans are. One of the most interesting points is that \endash  compared to humans \endash  they do not know the concepts such as the rich-poor discrimination and the fight for power that are observed in our societies. 
\par Many scientists, who for years have been doing extensive research on ants, have not been able to clarify the subject of their advanced social behaviour. Caryle P. Haskins, Ph.D., the president of the Carnegie Institute at Washington has this to say: 

\par }\pard\plain \s18\qj \fi56\li227\ri0\sb113\sa113\sl-280\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin227\itap0\pararsid9585949 \f8\fs18\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
After 60 years of observation and study, I still marvel at how sophisticated the ants' social behavior is. \'85The ants thus make a beautiful model for our use in studying the roots of animal behavior.}{
\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 1}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
Some colonies of ants are so extensive with respect to population and living area, that it is impossible to explain how they can form a perfect order over such a vast area. Therefore, it is not easy not to concur with Dr. Haskins. 
\par As an example of these large colonies we can give the species of ant, called }{\i\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 Formica }{\i\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid9585949\charrsid9585949 Yessensis}{
\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid9585949\charrsid9585949  that}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
 lives on the Ishikari coast of Hokkaido. This ant colony lives in 45,000 interconnected nests over an area of 2.7 square kilometres. The colony, which is composed of approximately 1,080,000 queens and 306,000,000 }{
\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid9585949\charrsid9585949 workers,}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949  has been named the "Super colony" by the researchers.}{
\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 2}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949  It has been discovered that all production tools and food are exchanged in an orderly fashion within the colony. 

\par It is very hard to explain how the ants have maintained this order without any problems, }{\cs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 considering}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
 the vast area they 
are living in. We must not forget that various security forces are needed for enforcing law and maintaining social order, even in a civilized country with a low population density. And there is an administrative staff leading and managing these units. Som
etimes, it does not become possible to maintain the required order without problems despite all these intense efforts. 
\par Yet in ant colonies there is no need felt for police, gendarmerie or guards. If we consider that actually the duty of the queens, whom we
 think of as the leaders of the colonies, is just to maintain the species, they do not have a leader or a governor. There is thus no hierarchy based on a chain of command amongst them. Then who is it that lays down this order and maintains its continuity?
 
\par In the later chapters of the book we shall find answers to this question and similar others in combination. 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\sb480\sa120\sl480\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid9585949 \b\f8\fs22\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs26\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
CASTE SYSTEM
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
Each ant colony without exception complies strictly with the caste system. This caste system consists of three major parts within a colony. 
\par Members of the first caste are the queen and the males who make reproduction possible. More than one queen may exist in a colony. The queen has assumed the task of reproducing and thus increasing the number of individuals making up the colony. Her 
body is larger than that of the other ants. The duty of the males on the other hand is just to fertilize the queen. In fact, nearly all of these die after the nuptial flight.
\par The members of the second caste are the soldiers. These take on duties like the setting up of the colony, finding a new living environment and hunting. 
\par The third caste consists of worker ants. All of the workers are sterile females. They take care of the mother ant and her babies; they clean and feed them. In addition to all these, ot
her jobs in the colony are also under the responsibility of the workers. They build new corridors and new galleries for their nests; they search for food and continually clean up the nest. 
\par The worker and soldier ants also have sub-groups. These are named 
slaves, thieves, nurses, guards and foragers. Each group has a different task. While one group focuses completely on fighting the enemy or hunting, another group builds nests, and yet another one looks after maintenance. 
\par Every individual in the ant colonies does his full share of the work. None of them worry about the position it is in nor the nature of the job it performs, but it plainly does what is required of it. What is important is the continuity of the colony. 

\par When we think about how this system could have developed, we cannot avoid reaching the fact of creation. 
\par Let us explain why: Where there is perfect order, logically we reach the conclusion that this has certainly been established by a planning mind. For instance, there is a disciplined order 
in the military; it is obvious that the officers in control of the army have established this order. It would certainly be an absurd idea to assume that all individuals in the army came together on their own and organized themselves and that later on they
 
were grouped in different ranks and started acting in compliance with these ranks. Furthermore, the officers who have established this order have to keep on carrying out inspections of this order so that it may persist without any problems. Otherwise, an 
army left solely to the troops would soon be transformed into an unruly crowd, regardless of how well disciplined it might have been at the beginning. 
\par The ants also have a discipline very similar to that of the military. Yet the critical aspect is that the
re is no "officer", that is any organizing administrator, in sight. The various caste systems within the ant colony carry out their duties in a faultless manner; although, yet there is no obvious "central power" which supervises them. 
\par Then the only explanation is that the central will in question is an "invisible" one. The inspiration which is mentioned in the Qur'an with the statement }{\b\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
"And your Lord revealed to the bee" (Surat Nahl, 68),}{\b\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949  }{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 is this invisible power.
\par This will has achieved such tremendous plan
ning that people are in awe of it when they try to analyze it. Such awe and wonderment have been expressed from time to time in various forms by the researchers as well. Evolutionists, who claim that such a perfect system has developed as a result of coin
cidences, are not able to explain this sacrificial behaviour which is at the core of this system. An article written on this subject in the Journal of }{\i\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 Bilim ve Teknik}{
\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949  indicates this incapability once more: 
\par }\pard\plain \s18\qj \li227\ri0\sb113\sl-280\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin227\itap0 \f8\fs18\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
The problem is why living beings help each other. 
According to Darwin's Theory, each living creature fights for his own survival and reproduces. Since helping others would relatively decrease the probability of survival of that living being, this behaviour had to be eliminated by evolution in the long ru
n. Yet it has been observed that living beings may be ready to sacrifice. 
\par }\pard \s18\qj \li227\ri0\sa113\sl-280\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin227\itap0 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
A classical form of explaining the fact of sacrifice is that the colonies which are made up of individuals who are ready to sacrifice for the benefit of the group or the genus shall 
be more successful during evolution than those which are made up of egotistical individuals. However, the point, which is not explained in this theory, is how the societies which can sacrifice may maintain this characteristic. A single egotistical individ
u
al who may come up in such a society should be able to transfer its selfish characteristics to the later generations, since he is not going to sacrifice himself. Another vague point is that if evolution happens at the level of societies, what should the d
imension of this society be? Should it be the family, species, genus or class? Even if there is an evolution simultaneously at more than one level, what will be the result when interests are in conflict}{
\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid9585949 ?}{\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 3}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
As we can see, it is not possible to explain the sense of sacrifice in living beings and the social systems based on this sense with the theory of evolution, that is, by assuming that living creatures have come into being by chance. 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\sb360\sa120\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5133142 \b\f8\fs22\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs26\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
Can the Ants Be Doormen? 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
When we analyze the details of the system in the ant colonies, we feel the power of the invisible will, which establishes and governs this system, in a more concrete way. Now let us take a look at these details.
\par The connections to the outer world of the ant nests are usually via a small hole large enoug
h for an ant to go through. Passing through these holes is by "permission". There are ants within the colony whose numbers are not very many with the duty of "serving as a doorman". 
\par "The doormen" serve as living gates with the shapes of their heads fitting right in the nest entrance. Furthermore, the colour and design of their heads are the same as that of the tree barks in the close surrounding. The doorman sits for hours at the ent
rance hole and allows free passage only its nestmates.}{\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 4}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949  
\par This means that the idea of keeping a doorman to guard the buildings has been put into practice, before men, by doorman ants, who cover the entrance with the strongest part of their bodies, who also c
amouflage themselves and who do not let in those who do not say the right "password". 
\par It is quite obvious that that the head of the doorman ant that we mentioned above fits right into the hole, that its colour and patterns conform to the environment, and 
that it does not let in anybody that it does not know, cannot be up to its own will. There certainly is an owner of intellect who has designed the body of the ant in this form and who inspires the job it is doing. To say that the ant can figure out these 
duties on its own and serves as a doorman without running out of patience and without giving up, would certainly not be a sensible explanation. 
\par Let us think: Why would an ant want to be a doorman? If it had a choice, why would it pick the job, which is the
 most cumbersome and that requires the most sacrifice? If it did have such a chance, it would certainly pick a job that would provide it with the most comfortable environment and the best service. The choice, in fact, has come about with the determination
 of Allah. And the doorman ant performs its duties in full obedience. Only the creator of the ants may have designed such a perfect colony life to show the striking side of His art and given particular duties to the ant colony which abides by this system.

\par A
ccording to the theory of evolution, however, the ants should be developing in every respect and they should be trying to get into a caste where they could live a lot more comfortably. However, the doorman ants make no effort in this direction and they pe
rform their inspired jobs faultlessly throughout their entire lives. 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\sb360\sa120\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5133142 \b\f8\fs22\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs26\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
Expert Ants 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
The organization, specialization in certain fields, and communications in the ant world is almost as successful as among human beings. This is true to such an extent that hum
an beings are patterning their systems today on the harmonious system of the ants. The excerpt below illustrates this point: 
\par }\pard\plain \s18\qj \li227\ri0\sb113\sa113\sl-280\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin227\itap0 \f8\fs18\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
Computer experts today are trying to reproduce in laboratories the collective behaviour forms of ants in robots. Instead of very a
dvanced programmes, they are focusing on robots that cooperate devising between themselves on the basis of "simple" information elements. In these studies, the basic principle is the same. Instead of forming a highly advanced robot, the intention is to de
velop a herd of robots that are less "intelligent" but which will undertake the most "complex" tasks, just as the ants do in the ant colony\'85
 These robots will not be very advanced from the point of "intelligence" when taken one by one, but they will achieve
 the division of labour by collective action motivation. This will be possible because they will have the capacity to exchange the simplest information with each other. The life and cooperation in the ant colony has also influenced NASA\'85
 The organization is planning to send many "ant robots" for research on the planet Mars instead of a single advanced robot. Thus, even if some of them are destroyed, the surviving members of the team will be able to complete their tasks}{
\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 5}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 . 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
Let us now take a look at an interesting example from the world of "expert ants". 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\qj \li0\ri0\sb360\sa120\sl480\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid9502810 \b\f8\fs22\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs26\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9502810 
How Does Living in a Group Affect Ants?
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-302\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
The most obvious example of cooperation among ants is in the behaviour of a worker ant species called }{\i\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 Lasius emarginatus}{
\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 . The individuals of this species have interesti
ng affiliations with each other. The activities of four worker ants belonging to the group that works with earth go on when they are separated from the big group. However, when there is a substance, like glass or stone in between which prevents them from 
seeing each other, their rate of work slows down. 
\par Another example is that when the fire ants are separated from their groups by a thin barrier, they try to reach the other members of their colony by piercing this obstruction. 
\par Many variations occur also in
 the behaviour of ants when the number of individuals in the group changes. When the number of ants in the nest increases, it is observed that the activity of each one of the individuals also proportionally increases. When the worker ants come together as
 a group, they get together, calm down and spend less energy. It has been determined that as the population increases in some ant species, there is a drop in the amount of oxygen spent. 
\par What all these examples show us is that ants cannot survive on their o
wn. These small creatures have been created with characteristics that allow them to live only in groups or even colonies. And this proves to us how out of touch with reality are the claims by the evolutionists with regard to the socializing process of ant
s
. It is impossible for the ants to have been living alone when they were first created and to have socialized later on to form colonies. It would have been impossible for an ant facing such an environment to have survived. It would have had to reproduce, 
to build a nest for itself and its larvae, to feed both itself and its family, be a doorman, be a soldier and also a worker who took care of the larvae\'85
 We cannot claim that all these jobs requiring an extensive division of labour could have been performed 
once upon a time by a single ant or even a few ants. Furthermore, it is impossible to think that they worked hard towards socialization while performing these mundane tasks. 
\par What is deduced from all this is the following: Ants are creatures who have been 
living under a social system and in groups since the day they were first created. This in turn is proof that ants have come into existence in one single moment with all their characteristics intact and, if we wish to phrase it better, that they have been 
}{\b\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9502810 "created".}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949  
\par }\pard\plain \s19\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\sb360\sa120\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5133142 \b\f8\fs22\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs26\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
\page A Model Headquarters
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-302\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
Let us expand a little the example of an army that we gave previously. Just think that you arrived at an army headquarters that is enormously large, but in which there is complete order. It looks as if you cannot go inside,
 because the security guards at the gates do not let in anybody they do not know. The building is protected with a security system that is strictly supervised. 
\par Let us just assume that you found a way of getting in. Various systematic and dynamic activitie
s will catch your attention inside, for thousands of soldiers are performing their duties in a strictly orderly fashion. When you search for the secret of this order, you notice that the building has been designed in a form entirely suitable for the inhab
i
tants to work in. There are special departments for each job and these departments are designed so that the soldiers can work in the easiest manner. For instance, the building has floors underground, but the department which requires the sun's energy is l
o
cated where it may get sunlight at the widest possible angle. And the departments which have to be in constant touch with each other are constructed very close to each other so that access would be facilitated. The warehouses where the surplus materials a
re stored are designed as a separate department in one side of the building. The warehouses where such requirements are kept are comfortable, accessible locations and there is a wide space right at the centre of the building where everybody may gather. 

\par The
 features of the headquarters are not limited to these. The building is heated uniformly in spite of its vastness. The temperature stays constant all day long thanks to an extremely advanced central heating system. Another reason for this is the building'
s extremely effective external insulation against all weather conditions. 
\par If the question of how and by whom this type of headquarters was designed was asked, everybody would say that it is by superior technology and by a professional team work. Such a hea
dquarters building can only be built by people who have a certain level of education, culture, intellect and logic. 
\par However, this headquarters building is actually an ant's nest. (please see p. 27) 
\par To accumulate the required information to build such typ
e of a headquarters building would take quite a long part of human life. However, an ant coming out of the egg knows its duty at that moment and starts work without losing any time. This shows that ants possess this information before they are born. All t
his information has been inspired in the ants at the time of their creation by Allah, the Almighty Who created them. 
\par }\pard \s15\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\sb360\sa120\sl480\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid9502810 {\b\fs26\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 Self Organization in Ants
\par }\pard \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 There is no leader, planning, or programming in the world of ants
. And the most important point is that there is no chain of command as we mentioned before. The most complex duties in this society are carried out without skipping a beat due to an immensely advanced self-organization. Consider the following example:

\par When
 food shortages occur in the colony, the worker ants are immediately transformed into "feeder" ants and they start feeding others with the food particles in their reserve stomachs, and when there is surplus food in the colony, they shed this identity and 
again become worker ants. 
\par The sacrifice displayed here truly is at an advanced level. While human beings have not succeeded in fighting hunger in the world, the ants have found a practical solution to this problem: to share everything, including their food
. Yes, this is a real example of sacrifice. Giving without hesitation everything it owns including its food to the next ant, so that it may survive, is just one of the examples of sacrifice in nature which the theory of evolution cannot manage to explain.
 
\par There is no overpopulation problem for ants. While today, the metropolises of man are becoming hard to live in due to migration, lack of infrastructure, misallocation of resources and unemployment, ants can manage their underground cities, with a populati
on of 50 million in a fantastically orderly fashion, without the feeling that anything is lacking. Each ant immediately adapts to changes occurring in its environment. For such a thing to occur, the ants must have certainly been programmed physically and 
psychologically. 
\par For the emergence of such extremely well organized systems, there has to be a "master will" to give them the inspiration to do their work and to give them orders. Otherwise, great chaos would ensue rather than order. And this master will p
ertains to Allah, Who owns everything, Who is Almighty, Who directs all living beings and orders them by inspiration. 
\par The fact that ants perpetually strive without any consideration of benefit, is proof that they are acting on the inspiration of a certain
 "supervisor". The verse below fully confirms that Allah is the master and supervisor of everything and that every living creature acts on His inspiration: }{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782 
\par }{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid2436030\charrsid9585949 
\par }\pard\plain \s17\qj \li227\ri113\sb113\sa113\sl-280\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin113\lin227\itap0 \b\f8\fs18\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9502810 
I have put my trust in Allah, my Lord and your Lord. There is no living being He does not hold by the forelock and inspect! My Lord is on a straight path. (Surah Hud, 56)
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qc \li0\ri0\sb480\sa120\sl480\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5133142 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 \page }{
\b\fs36\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 COMMUNICATION IN SOCIETY
\par }\pard \s15\qj \fi227\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
The Qur'an supplies an interesting piece of information when talking about Prophet Sulayman's armies and mentions that there is an advanced "communications system" among the ants. The verse is as follows:
\par }\pard\plain \s17\qj \li227\ri113\sb113\sa113\sl-280\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin113\lin227\itap0 \b\f8\fs18\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9502810 
Then, when they reached the valley of the ants, an ant said,'Ants! Enter your dwellings so that Sulayman and his troops do not crush you unwittingly.' (Surat an-Naml, 18) 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
The scientific research made on ants in this century has shown that there is an incredible communications network among these creatures. In an article published in the National Geographic magazine, this point is explained: }{
\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782 
\par }\pard \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid2436030 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid2436030\charrsid9585949 
\par }\pard\plain \s18\qj \li227\ri0\sb113\sa113\sl-280\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin227\itap0 \f8\fs18\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
Huge and tiny, an ant carries in her head multiple sensory organs t
o pick up chemical and visual signals vital to colonies that may contain a million or more workers, all of which are female. The brain contains half a million nerve cells; eyes are compound; antennae act as nose and fingertips. Projections below the mouth
 sense taste; hairs respond to touch.}{\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 7}{\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid2436030 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
Even if we do not notice it, the ants have quite a different method of communication in virtue of their sensitive sensing organs. They employ these sense organs at every moment of their lives, from finding their prey t
o following each other, from building their nests to fighting. They have a communication system which astonishes us, as human beings with intellect, with their 500,000 nerve cells squeezed into their bodies of 2 or 3 millimetres. What we should keep in mi
nd here is that the half a million nerve cells and the complex communication system mentioned above belongs to an ant which in bulk is almost one millionth of a human being. 
\par }\pard \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 In research done on social creatures like ants, bees and termites, who live in col
onies, the responses of these animals in the communication process are listed under several main categories: Alarm, recruitment, grooming, exchange of oral and anal liquid, group effect, recognition, caste determination\'85}{
\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 8}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
\par The ants, who constitute an orderl
y social structure with these various responses, lead a life based on mutual news exchange and they have no difficulty in achieving this correspondence. We could say that ants, with their impressive communication system, are hundred percent successful on 
subjects that human beings sometimes cannot resolve nor agree upon by talking (e.g. meeting, sharing, cleaning, defence, etc.). 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\sb360\sa120\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5133142 \b\f8\fs22\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs26\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
News Exchange Between Groups Of Ants 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
First, scout ants go to food source that has been newly discovered. Then they call other a
nts by a liquid they secrete in their glands called pheromone(*). When the crowd round the food gets bigger, this pheromone secretion issues the workers a limit again. If the piece of food is very small or far away, the scouts make an adjustment in the nu
m
ber of ants trying to get to the food by issuing signals. If a nice piece of food is found, the ants try harder to leave more traces thus more ants from the nest come to the aid of the foragers. Whatever happens, no problems arise in the consumption of th
e food and its transportation to the nest, because what we have here is perfect "team work". 
\par Another example relates to the forager ants who migrate from one nest to another. These ants advance towards the old nest from the newly found nest by leaving a tr
ace behind. Other workers examine the new nest and if they are convinced, they also start leaving their own pheromones (chemical traces) on top of the old trace. Therefore, the ants going between the two nests increase in number and these prepare the nest
. During this work, the worker ants do not stay idle. They set up a certain organization and division of labour between themselves. The tasks assumed group-wide by the ants who detect the new nest are as follows: }{
\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782 
\par }{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid2436030\charrsid9585949 
\par }{\b\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 1.}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949  Acting as gatherers in the new area. 
\par }{\b\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 2.}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949  Coming to the new area and keeping watch. 
\par }{\b\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 3.}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949  Following the guards to receive the meeting instruction. 
\par }{\b\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 4.}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949  Making a detailed survey of the area. }{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782 
\par }{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid2436030\charrsid9585949 
\par }{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 Of course, we cannot take it for granted without pondering at all that this perfect action plan has been i
n practice by the ants since day one of their existence, because the division of labour required by such a plan may not have been applied by individuals who thought only of their own lives and interests. Then the following question comes to mind: "Who has
 
been inspiring this plan in the ants for millions of years and who ensures its application?" Naturally, great intellect and power are needed for the incredibly superior group communication required by this action plan. The truth of the matter is obvious. 
Allah, the Creator of all living beings and possessor of infinite wisdom, shows us the way to being able to comprehend His power by displaying to us this systematic world of the ants. 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\sb360\sa120\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5133142 \b\f8\fs22\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs26\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
Chemical Communications
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
All of the communication categories listed above
 may be grouped under the heading of: "Chemical Signals". These chemical signals play the most important role in the organization of ant colonies. Semiochemicals is the general name given to the chemicals the ants utilize for the purpose of establishing c
ommunication. Basically, there are two kinds of semiochemicals: Their names are pheromones and allomones. 
\par Allomone is a material used for inter-genus communication. Yet pheromone, as explained before, is a chemical signal which is mostly used within a genu
s and, when secreted by an ant, can be perceived by another as a smell. This chemical is thought to be produced in the endocrine glands. When an ant secretes this fluid as a signal, the others get the message by way of smell or taste and respond. The rese
arch done on ant pheromones has revealed that all signals are secreted in accordance with the needs of the colony. Also, the concentration of the pheromone secreted by the ants varies in terms of the urgency of the situation.}{
\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 9}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949  
\par As one can see, an in-depth k
nowledge of chemistry is needed to manage the tasks performed by the ants. We human beings can resolve the chemicals the ants produce only by tests we perform in laboratories, plus we go through years of education to be able to do this. Yet ants can secre
te these whenever they need to, and have been doing so since the day they were born, and they know quite well what response to give to which secretion. 
\par The fact that they accurately identify the chemicals right from the time they are born shows the existen
ce of an "Instructor" who gives them chemistry education at birth. To claim the opposite would mean that the ants have learned chemistry over time and that they have started making experiments: this would be in violation of logic. The ants know these chem
icals without having had any education when they were born. We cannot say that another ant or another living creature is the "teacher" of the ant either. No insect, no living creature \endash  including human beings \endash 
 has the capacity to teach ants how to manufact
ure chemicals and establish communication by these substances. If there is an act of teaching before birth, the only will which would be able to achieve this act is that of Allah, Who is the Creator of all living things and "the Lord (Educator)" of the he
avens and earth. 
\par Many people do not even know the meaning of "pheromone" \endash  something that ants secrete continuously in their daily lives. Yet, each new-born ant performs in a perfect social communication system because of these chemicals; a social communic
ation system which leaves no room for doubting the existence of a Creator with infinite power\'85
\par }\pard\plain \s19\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\sb360\sa120\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5133142 \b\f8\fs22\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs26\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
Endocrine Glands
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
There are basically a few endocrine glands where the complex chemical reactions we have talked about so far take place. Secretions produced in six endocrine glands provide this inter-ant chemical correspondence. However, these hormones do not display the 
same characteristics in each species of ant; each endocrine gland has a separate function in different species of ants. Now let us take a close look at these endocrine glands: 
\par }\pard \s15\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\sb120\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\b\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 Dufour's Glands: }{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
The hormones produced in these glands are used in commands for alarm and meeting for attack. 
\par }{\b\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 The Venom Sack:}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
 An extensive formic acid production takes place in the venom sack. Also the venom which is produced to be used during attack and defence is formed here. The best example of this hormone is found in the fire an
t. The venom of these ants may paralyse small animals and hurt human beings. 
\par }\pard \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
In a forest inhabited by ants who produce formic acid, researchers found formic acid at a level that could not be explained. All theories that were set forth were proven wrong an
d all research done produced no results. Eventually scientists concluded that formicine ants may be responsible for much of the formic acid found in previously unexplained quantities in the atmosphere above the Amazon forest and other habitats rich in the
se insects. It is estimated, very roughly, that formicine ants may release 10}{\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 12 }{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
grams of formic acid globally each year. That is, these micro-creatures are able to produce formic acid on a scale that can even influence the atmosphere of the region they live in without any harm coming to themselves and this perplexes the researchers.}
{\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 10}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949  
\par }\pard \s15\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\sb120\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\b\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 Pygidial Glands:}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
 Three different species of ants use the secretions produced by these glands as their alarm system. The large desert harvester ant transmits this hormone in th
e form of a strong smell and issues a panic alarm; and the Pheidole biconstricta, which is a species of ant living in }{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid10033590\charrsid9585949 South}{
\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949  America, utilizes the secretion it produces in these glands in chemical defence and attack alarms. 
\par }{\b\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 Sternal Glands: }{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 The secretions h
ere are used during colony migrations and tracking prey and in gathering the "soldiers" together. The most original function of this secretion is to lubricate the seventh abdominal area of the ant that it frequently has to rotate when spurting out venom. 
Thus, the turning of its body for spurting venom becomes easier. Without this gland, which is a microscopic lubricant production centre, the defence system of the ant would be inefficient. 
\par }\pard \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 Yet this is not so, because there is a faultless design in place: H
ow a tiny ant would turn its body to spray venom has been established, just as it has been pre-determined where and how this lubricant needed for reducing strain while rotating this body shall be produced. 
\par }\pard \s15\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\sb120\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\b\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 Metapleural Glands:}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
 It has been determined that t
he secretions from these glands are antiseptics, which protect the body surface and the nest from micro organisms. One active antibiotic component of Attas, for example, is phenylacetic acid, of which an ant carries an average of 1.4 micrograms at any giv
e
n moment. The worker ant regularly releases small amounts of this mixture that serve as an antiseptic. When she is attached by enemy ants, she suddenly discharges large quantities of the metapleural gland secretions, which now function as a powerful repel
lent.}{\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 11}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949  
\par }\pard \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
Let us not forget that an ant does not know how to protect itself from microbes and does not even know of the existence of the microbes. Yet, its body produces the drug against its enemies without its knowing. The fact that there is always an antis
eptic hormone in the body of the ant in an amount of 1.4 micrograms is a detail which has been worked out with great precision. Because He Who created the ant is the One Who caters for all the needs of all the living beings He created in the greatest deta
il, and who is indeed "Gracious".
\par As demonstrated, all endocrine glands mentioned in this chapter are units that have vital functions for the ants. A lack of or the insufficient functioning of any of these has adverse influences on all of the social and phy
sical life of the ant. In fact, it makes it impossible for it to stay alive. 
\par This demolishes absolutely the claims of the theory of evolution, because evolution claims that living beings have developed in stages and that starting from a primitive form, th
ey have become more advanced gradually as a result of a series of beneficial coincidences. This would mean that the ants during the previous stages did not have part of the physiological characteristics they have today and that they acquired these later o
n. However, all the secretions of the ants we discussed above are vital and without them it is impossible for an ant species to survive. 
\par The conclusion from all this is that the ants were created at the outset with these endocrine glands and vital function
s. That is, they did not wait for the development of the necessary endocrine glands for hundreds of thousands of years in order to have a defence and communications system. Had that been so, it would have been impossible for the ant genus to have survived
.
 The only explanation is that the first ant species which existed on earth did so in the same complete and perfect form as it is in today. A perfect system cannot be other than the artwork of an intelligent designer. If we are able today to talk about an 
ant society with a population of billions, then we must admit that a single Creator has created these all at once. 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\sb360\sa120\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5133142 \b\f8\fs22\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs26\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
The Identity Card of Ants: Colony Odor}{\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949  
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
We had mentioned previously that the 
ants can recognize each other and distinguish their relatives and friends from the same colony. Zoologists are still investigating how the ants can recognize their relatives. While man cannot distinguish between the few ants he may come across, let us see
 now how these creatures who are so completely alike can recognize each other. 
\par An ant can easily detect if another ant is a nestmate or not. A worker ant casually sweeps her antennae over the other's body to recognize it, in case it enters the nest. It can
 immediately distinguish nestmates from strangers by virtue of the special colony odor it carries. If the ant who enters the nest is a stranger, the hosts attack this uninvited guest with extreme violence, locking their mandibles on body and appendages wh
i
le stinging or spraying with formic acid, citronellal, or some other toxic substance. If the guest is a member of the same species but from a different colony, they can understand that too. In this case the guest ant is accepted in the nest. However, the 
guest ant is offered less food until it acquires the colony odor.}{\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 12
\par }\pard\plain \s19\qj \li0\ri0\sb360\sa120\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5133142 \b\f8\fs22\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs26\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
How Is the Colony Odor Obtained?}{\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
The source of the odor by which kin are recognized has not been identified with certainty. However, as far as it has been discovered, ants use hydrocarbons for the odor distinguishing process among themselves. 
\par The experiments performed have shown that ants who belong to the same species, but to different colonies, identify each other by hydrocarbon differences. An interesting experiment was carried out to un
derstand this. First, the workers in one colony were washed with solvents containing extracts of workers from alien colonies of the same species. It was observed that other workers from the focal colony reacted aggressively to them, whereas the responding
 workers reacted in a neutral or at most a mildly }{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid10033590\charrsid9585949 aggressive}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
 manner to workers washed with extracts of their nestmates.}{\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 13}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\sb360\sa120\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5133142 \b\f8\fs22\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs26\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
Has the Colony Odor Evolved?}{\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949  
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
A very significant point which has to be carefully considered with regard to the colony odor is the matter of evolution. How do the evolution mechanisms explain the fact that }{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid10033590\charrsid9585949 ants}{
\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949  or members of other insect colonies (bees, termites etc.) can recognize their friends by their exclusive pheromones?
\par }\pard \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-292\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 People who try to defend the theory of evolution in spite of all
 kinds of impossibilities claim that pheromones are the result of natural selection (The preservation of beneficial changes occurring in living beings and elimination of harmful ones). Yet, this is out of the question for any insect species including ants
.
 A most striking example on this point is the honey bee. When a honey bee stings its enemy, it produces a pheromone for notifying the other bees that there is danger. However, it dies right after this. In this case, this means that this pheromone is produ
c
ed only once. Then, it is impossible for such a "beneficial change" to be transferred to the following generations and become propagated by natural selection. This explanation indicates that it is impossible for the chemical communications between insect 
s
pecies that have the caste system to have evolved by the method of natural selection. This characteristic of the insects, which rebuts the theory of natural selection completely, demonstrates once more that the One who establishes the communications netwo
rk among them is the One "who creates them for the first time."
\par }\pard\plain \s19\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\sb360\sa120\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5133142 \b\f8\fs22\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs26\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
Call of the Ants}{\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-292\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
Ants have a level of self-sacrifice which is very advanced and, due to this characteristic, they always invite their friends to each source of food they find and they share their food with them. 
\par In such situations, the ant that discovers the food source directs the others to it. The following method is used for this: The first forager ant that finds the food source fills its crop and returns home. As it returns, it drags its tu
mmy on the ground at short intervals and leaves a chemical signal. Yet its invitation does not end there. It tours around the ant hill for a short while. It does this between three to sixteen times. This motion ensures contact with its nestmates. When the
 forager wishes to return to the food source, all its mates that it has met wish to follow it. Yet only the friend }{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid2822717\charrsid9585949 who}{
\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949  is in the closest antenna contact may accompany it outside. When the scout reaches the food, it returns immediately to the hill and assume
s the part of the host. The scout and its other worker friend are joined to each other via continuous sensory signals and the pheromone hormone on the surfaces of their bodies. 
\par Ants may reach their target by following the trail that goes to the food, even
 when there is no inviting ant. Because of the trail that successful foragers leave from the food to the nest, when the forager comes to the nest and does the "rock dance", its nestmates reach the food source without any help from the inviter. 
\par Another int
eresting side to ants is their production of many chemical compounds to be used in the process of invitation, each one with a different task. It is not known why so many different chemicals are used to be gathered around the food source but, as far as one
 
can tell, the diversity of such substances make sure that trails are different from each other. Apart from these, ants transmit different signals when sending messages, and the intensity of each signal is different from the others. They increase the inten
sity of the signal when the colony gets hungry, or when new nest areas are needed. 
\par This solidarity among ant societies at such a high level may be regarded as behaviour that is worth considering and that can be taken as an example for men. Compared to huma
n beings who unhesitatingly violate the rights of other individuals on account of their own interests \endash  which are all they think about - the tremendously self-sacrificing ants are much more ethical. 
\par It is in no way possible to explain the totally unselfis
h behaviour of ants, in terms of the theory of evolution. This is because evolution assumes that the only rule existing in nature is the fight for survival and the accompanying conflict. Yet, the behavioural characteristics that ants and many other types 
of animals display disprove this and show the reality of sacrifice. The theory of evolution, in fact, is nothing other than an attempt by those who wish to legalize their own selfishness to ascribe this selfishness to the whole of nature.
\par }\pard\plain \s19\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\sb360\sa120\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5133142 \b\f8\fs22\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs26\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
The Role of Touch in Chemical Communications}{\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-292\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
The communications by ants by touching each other with their antennae in maintaining intra-colony organization proves that there is in use an "antennal language" in its fullest sense. 
\par The antenna signals created by touching in a
nts are used for various purposes like commencement of dinner, invitations and social meetings where nestmates get to know each other. For instance, in one type of worker ant species living in Africa, workers first touch by the antennae when they meet eac
h other. Here, "antenna shaking" means just a salute and an invitation to the nest. 
\par }\pard \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-286\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 This invitation behaviour is even more striking in certain ant species (}{
\i\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 Hypoponera}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 ). When a pair of workers meet face to face, the inviting ant tilts its head sideways 90 d
egrees and strikes the upper and lower surfaces of the nestmate's head with its antennae. Often the solicited ant responds with similar antennation.}{\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 14}{
\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949  
\par When the ants touch the bodies of their nestmates, the goal is not to give them information but to recei
ve information by detecting the chemicals they secrete. One ant beats the nestmate's body very lightly and rapidly with its antennae. When it gets close to its nestmate, its goal here is to bring the chemical signals as close as possible to the other. As 
a result, it will be able to detect and follow the odor trail its friend has just laid and reach the food source. 
\par The most striking example that may be set forth for tactile communication is the exchange of liquid food from the crop of one ant to the alime
ntary tract of another. In an interesting test made on this subject, various parts of the bodies of worker ants of the }{\i\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 Myrmica}{
\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949  and }{\i\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 Formica}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
 species were stimulated by human hair and were thus successfully induced to regugitate. The most susceptible ant was 
the one that had just finished a meal and was looking for a nestmate with whom to share its crop content. Researchers noted that certain insects and parasites were aware of such tactics and they were having themselves fed by practising this method. What t
he insect had to do to attract the ant's attention was just to touch the ant's body slightly with its antenna and its front leg. Then the touched ant would share its meal, even if the creature in contact with it is of a different type.}{
\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 15}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949  
\par The ability of an ant to understand what the other one wants by a short antenna contact shows that the ants may, in a sense, "speak" among themselves. How this "antennal language" used among ants is learned by all ants is another subject to think about. A
r
e they undergoing training on this subject? To talk about the existence of such training, we must also talk about the existence of a superior Almighty Who provides it. Since it cannot be the ants who can provide such a training, this Almighty is Allah Who
, by way of inspiration, teaches all ants a language with which to communicate. 
\par The sharing behaviour practised among ants is a specimen of self-sacrifice that cannot be explained by the theory of evolution. Some evolutionists who see the adage "Big fish s
wallow small fish" as the key to life on earth are forced to withdraw such words when confronted with such self-sacrifice as is displayed by ants. In an ant colony, instead of the "big ant" developing by eating the "small ant", it rather attempts to feed 
the "small ant" and make it grow. All ants are ready to accept the food - that is, the "provision" - given to them and definitely make sure to share the excess with other members of the colony. 
\par As a result, what all these examples show us is that
 the ants are a society of living beings who have submitted to the will of the Creator and who act under His inspiration. Therefore, it would not be right to regard them as organisms which are totally unconscious, because they do have a consciousness whic
h
 reflects the will of their Creator. Indeed, Allah draws attention in the Qur'an to this interesting fact and notifies us that all living things are, in fact, a community among themselves, that is, they live under a Divine order and in accordance with ins
piration.
\par }\pard\plain \s17\qj \li227\ri113\sb113\sa113\sl-286\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin113\lin227\itap0 \b\f8\fs18\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid2822717 
There is not an animal that lives on the earth, nor a being that flies on its wings, but forms communities like you. We have not omitted anything from the Book, and they will be gathered to their Lord. (Surat al-An'am, 38)
\par }\pard\plain \s19\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\sb360\sa120\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5133142 \b\f8\fs22\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs26\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid2822717\charrsid9585949 
Acoustical}{\fs26\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949  Communication}{\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949  
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-286\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid2822717\charrsid9585949 Acoustical}{
\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
 communication is another method used frequently by ants. Two forms of sound production have been identified, body rapping against the substratum and stridulation, that is, rubbing of specialized body parts together to produce a "chirp".}{
\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 16}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
\par The 
sound signal produced by body rapping occurs most commonly in colonies that occupy wooden nests. For instance, carpenter ants communicate by "drumming". They start "drumming" in the face of any danger approaching their nests. This danger may be a sound th
a
t causes disturbance or a touch that they feel or a suddenly developing air current. The drummer ant strikes the substrate with its mandibles and gaster while rocking its body back and forth. This way, signals easily may be carried through the thin wooden
 shells of the nest for several decimeters or more.}{\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 17}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
 The European carpenter ants send vibrations to their nestmates who are 20 cm or even farther away by tapping with their chins and bellies on the woodwork of rooms and corridors. It must be taken into acc
ount here that 20 cm for an ant is a distance that would correspond to 60-70 metres for a human being. 
\par Ants are almost deaf to vibrations transmitted through air. However, they are very sensitive to sound vibrations transmitted through objects. This is a 
very efficient warning signal for them. When they hear it they quicken their pace, they move towards the place where the vibration comes from and they attack all moving living beings that they see around. 
\par No disobedience to this call by any of the members
 of the colony is an indication of successful organization of the ant society. One must admit that even a small human society responding to an alarm call collectively, at the same time, without any exception, and without anarchy developing, is a very diff
icult thing in practice. Yet ants are able to do what they are ordered without losing any time and so they are able to lead their lives without interrupting the discipline within the colony even for a moment. 
\par The production of chirps is more complex as a s
ystem than drumming. The sound produced is created by rubbing certain parts of the body together. Ants produce this sound by rubbing together the organs at the rear of their bodies. If you get your ear close to the worker harvester ants, you may hear them
 produce a high pitched voice all the time. 
\par Three major functions of stridulation have been discovered in various species. These may be listed as follows: 
\par }{\b\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 1.}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949  Acoustical communication in leaf cutter ants serves as an underground alarm system. It is usually
 employed when a part of the colony is buried by a cave-in of the nest. Workers start moving to perform rescue excavations in response to received sound signals. 
\par }{\b\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 2.}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949  High pitched voices are used in some species during mating by queens. When young queens ga
ther on the ground or vegetation for mating, and have obtained enough sperm, they produce high pitched sounds to escape from the swarms of males chasing them. 
\par }{\b\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 3.}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949  Yet in other species, sound is used to enhance the effectiveness of pheromones produced durin
g the gathering of nestmates to find food or new nest sites.}{\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 18}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949  
\par Sometimes in certain species, the food searchers make it possible for other ants to surround the prey with signals they produce when they find a prey. Gathering together of the workers and get
ting to the prey is realized within 1-2 minutes on account of this high pitched voice. These features are a great advantage for the ant species. 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\sb360\sa120\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5133142 \b\f8\fs22\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs26\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
For An Eye That Sees\'85
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-286\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
With their various communication methods, ants may be compared to men who can speak seve
ral foreign languages. They are able to communicate with 3-4 different languages among themselves and they are able to pursue their lives in the least problematic manner. They are able to subsist their colonies with populations of hundreds of thousands or
 sometimes millions, and survive all their lives without causing any confusion. 
\par Yet this communication system we have been describing so far is just one of the miraculous features of the animal world. When we analyse both people and also all other living b
eings (From single-celled to multi-celled) we can discover characteristics that are different from each other, with each being a separate and individual miracle with its place in an ecological order. 
\par For an eye that can notice all these miracles that are 
created around it, and a heart that can feel, it will be sufficient to look at the extraordinary communication system of the ant of millimetric dimensions to appreciate the infinite power, knowledge and wisdom of Allah Who is the sole Owner and Sovereign 
of all living things. In the Qur'an, Allah refers to these people who do not have this capability and who may not appreciate His might:
\par }\pard\plain \s17\ql \li227\ri113\sb120\sa120\sl-286\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin113\lin227\itap0 \b\f8\fs18\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9502810 
Have they not travelled about the earth and do they not have hearts to understand with or ears to hear with? It is not their eyes which are blind but the hearts in their breasts which are blind. (Surat al-Hajj, 46) }{
\b0\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9502810 \page 
\par }\pard \s17\qc \li227\ri113\sb120\sa120\sl600\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin113\lin227\itap0\pararsid2822717 {\fs36\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 ANT SPECIES
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid2822717 
Although all ants may seem alike, they are divided into many different species based on their lifestyles and physical attributes. These living being
s in fact have approximately 8800 species. Each species also has special admirable attributes. Now, let us discuss some of these species, their lifestyles and characteristics. 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\sb360\sa120\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5133142 \b\f8\fs22\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs26\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
Leaf Cutter Ants
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
The specific characteristic of the leaf cutter ants also called "atta," is their habit of transporting the leaf pieces that they cut out on their heads. The ants hide under leaves that are quite large compared to their own sizes. These they secure in thei
r
 closely shut chins. Therefore, the return voyage of worker ants after a day's work presents a very interesting picture. Anyone who sees this happening would feel as if the floor of the forest were alive and walking. In rain forests their actions remove a
bout 15 percent of leaf production.}{\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 19}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
 The reason for their carrying leaf pieces is, of course, not protection from the sun. Ants do not utilize these leaf pieces as food either. Then, in what way do they use so many leaves? 
\par It has been discovered that, sur
prisingly, Attas use these leaves in fungus culturing. Ants cannot eat the leaves themselves, because they do not have enzymes in their bodies that could digest the cellulose in the leaves. Worker ants make a heap of these leaf pieces after chewing them a
nd insert them into the garden substratum. In these chambers, they grow fungus on the leaves. This way, they obtain the required protein from the shoots of the fungus.}{\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 20}{
\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949  
\par However, when Attas are re
moved, the garden would normally begin to deteriorate and would soon be overwhelmed by weed fungi. Then, how can the Attas, who clean their gardens only before "planting," be protected against weed fungi? The trick of maintaining a pure fungus culture wit
h
out constant weeding seems to depend upon the saliva the ants work into the compost as they chew it up. It is thought that the saliva contains an antibiotic that inhibits the growth of undesirable fungi. It probably contains a growth-promoter for the righ
t fungus, too.}{\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 21}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
 What one has to ponder upon is the following: How have these ants learned to cultivate fungus? Is it possible that one day one of the ants took a leaf in its mouth by coincidence and chewed it, and then again by chance, it placed this liqui
d that had become porridge-like on a dry leaf floor which, by sheer coincidence is a totally appropriate place, and other ants brought pieces of fungus and planted them there and, finally, the ants which had anticipated that some sort of food that they co
u
ld eat would grow there, started cleaning the garden, throwing out unnecessary material, and harvesting? And then they went over and conveyed this process to the whole colony one by one? Also, why would they have carried all those leaves to their nests al
though they could not eat them? 
\par Furthermore, how could these ants have created the saliva that they use while chewing the leaves for the production of fungi? Even it is thought that they may form this saliva, one way or the other, with what information cou
ld they produce an antibiotic in their saliva which prevents the formation of weed fungi? Does it not require having a significant knowledge of chemistry to achieve such a process? Even if they did have such knowledge - which is impossible- how could they
 apply it and get their saliva to have this antibiotic substance characteristic? 
\par When one thinks about how ants could realize such a miraculous event, hundreds of similar questions come up to none of which there are any answers. 
\par On the other hand, if a si
ngle explanatory answer could be given, all these questions would have been answered. Ants have been designed and programmed to achieve the job they are performing. The observed event is sufficient to prove that ants are born or rather caused to be born k
n
owing farming. Such complex behavioural patterns are not phenomena which may develop in stages and with time. They are the work of a comprehensive knowledge and a supreme intellect. Thus the claims by evolutionists that beneficial behaviour is selected in
 
time and the required organs develop through mutations seem totally illogical. It is, of course, no one other than Allah who gives this knowledge to the ants from day one, and Who creates them with all these astonishing features. It is Allah who is the "C
r
eator" (Sani). The features of the Atta ants we mention above set forth a picture we shall face frequently all throughout this book. We are talking about a living being without the ability to think, but which nevertheless achieves a great task displaying 
a tremendous intellect. This is hard for man to conceive of. 
\par Then, what does this all mean? 
\par There is only one answer and it is a simple one: }{\b\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid2822717 If this animal has no capacity to think in order to enable it to do what it is doing, then its show of intellect, 
in fact, introduces us somebody else's Wisdom.}{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid2822717  }{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
The Creator Who has caused the ant to exist is letting this animal do things beyond its capacity to show His existence and superiority in His creation. The ant acts under Allah's inspiration and the intellect it displays is in fact, the Wisdom of Allah. 

\par Actually, a similar situation exists in the whole of the animal world. We meet creatures who display a very superior intellect, although they have neither an independent mind nor the capacity for judgement. The
 ant is one of the most striking of these and like other animals, acts, in fact, in accordance with the programme it has been given by the Will that trains it. It reflects the Wisdom and power of Possessor of that Will, that is, Allah. 
\par Now, let us continue reviewing the superior skills of ants with this basic knowledge. 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\sb360\sa120\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5133142 \b\f8\fs22\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs26\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
The Attas' Interesting Defence Methods}{\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
Medium-sized workers of the leaf cutter ant colony spend almost all their days in carrying leaves. It becomes difficult for them to protect themselve
s during this process, because they secure the leaves with the chins that they use for protecting themselves. Then, if they are not able to protect themselves, who does? 
\par It has been observed that leaf cutter worker ants walk around with smaller size worke
rs all the time. At first, it was thought that this was accidental. Then, the cause for this was researched and the finding, which was the result of a long analysis, was an astonishing example of cooperation. 
\par Medium-sized ants, given the task of carrying 
leaves use an interesting defence system against a hostile type of fly. This hostile fly has chosen a special place to lay its eggs - the head portion of each ant. The maggot hatching from the egg would feed on the ant's head, eventually decapitating the 
a
nt. Without their smaller assistants, the worker ants are defenceless against this fly species that is always ready to attack. Under normal circumstances, the ants who, with their scissors like sharp mandibles, are able to chase away the flies trying to l
and on them, cannot do this while carrying leaves. Therefore, they place another ant to defend them, on the leaf that they carry and during the attack, these small guards fight against the enemy.}{
\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 23}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949  
\par }\pard\plain \s19\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\sb360\sa120\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5133142 \b\f8\fs22\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs26\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
\page Highways of Attas}{\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
The road that Attas use, while carrying
 the leaves they cut back to home, seems like a miniature highway. Ants who crawl slowly on it collect all twigs, small gravel, grass and wild plants and put them to one side. Thus, they make a clear path for themselves. After a long period of intensive w
ork, this highway becomes straight and smooth as if built with a special device. 
\par The Atta colony consists of workers the size of a single grain of sand, soldiers who are many times larger and medium-sized "Marathon runners". Marathon runners run around to 
bring leaf pieces to the nest. These ants are so industrious that, scaled to human dimensions, each worker runs the equivalent of four-minute mile for 30-some miles (48 km.), with 500 }{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid2822717\charrsid9585949 
pounds (}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 227 kg.) slung over her shoulders.}{\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 24}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
 
\par In an Atta nest, fist-sized galleries may be found that may go 6 metres deep. The miniature workers may move some 40 tons of soil while digging the many chambers of their huge nests.}{\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
25}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949  The building of these nests in a few years by ants is comparable in difficulty and high standard of professionalism to man's construction of the Great Wall of China. 
\par This is proof that the Attas may not be regarded as ordinary simple creatures. These ants, who are extremely hard working, are able to achieve complex tasks that a man would find difficu
lt to do. Indeed, the only Possessor of might Who could have given them such skills is Allah. To say that they have acquired all these skills on their own and of their own accord would be illogical. 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\sb360\sa120\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5133142 \b\f8\fs22\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs26\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
Leaf Cutting Technique of Attas}{\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 When the ant cuts the le
af with its mandibles, its whole body vibrates. Scientists have observed that this shaking fixes the leaves, thus facilitating the cutting. At the same time, the sound serves to attract other workers-all females-to the site to finish off the leaf.}{
\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 26}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949  The an
t rubs two small organs on his belly to produce this vibration that may be heard as a very slight sound by human beings. This vibration is sent through the body until reaching the sickle-like mandibles of the ant. By rapidly oscillating her hind end, this
 ant cuts out a crescent of leaf with vibrating mandibles in much the same manner as an electric carving knife. 
\par This technique facilitates the cutting of the leaf. Yet, it is known that such vibrations serve another purpose as well. Seeing a leaf-cutting a
nt attracts others to the same place because many other plants in the regions where Attas live are poisonous. The testing of each leaf by an ant being such a risky procedure, they always go to locations where others have successfully completed their tasks
. 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\sb360\sa120\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5133142 \b\f8\fs22\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs26\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
Weaver Ants}{\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
Weaver ants live in the trees building themselves nests out of leaves. By combining the leaves, they are able to form nests over a few trees, thus supporting a much larger population. 
\par The stages of building are interesting. First, workers in
dividually seek locations in the colony territory that are suitable for expansion. When they find a suitable branch, they disperse over the leaves of the branch and start pulling in the leaves from the sides. When an ant succeeds in bending a portion of a
 
leaf, the workers close by also move towards it and start pulling the leaf together. If the leaf is wider than the size of the ant, or if it is necessary to pull two leaves together, the workers make suspension bridges between the points to be joined. Lat
e
r on, some of the ants in the chain climb on the backs of the ants beside them, thus shortening the chain, and the joining of the ends of the leaf is achieved. When the leaf takes a tent-like shape, some of the ants keep holding the leaf with their legs a
n
d mandibles and others go back to the old nest and carry specially raised larvae to this region. Workers rub the larvae back and forth over the joints of the leaf, using them as a source of silk. With the silk secreted from an opening right below the mout
hs of the larvae, the leaves are fastened at the required locations. That is, the larvae are used as sewing machines.}{\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 27}{
\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949  
\par The silk glands of these spinning larvae are much larger, but they may be carried easily because they are smaller in size. The larvae gi
ve all their silk for the needs of the colonies instead of using them for themselves. Instead of producing silk slowly from their silk glands, they expel a broad thread of silk, and they do not even try to build their own cocoons. In the remaining portion
 of their lives, worker ants will do everything the larvae have to do for them. As is evident, these larvae live only as "silk manufacturers".}{\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 28}{
\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949  
\par How the ants could develop such cooperation has never been explained by scientists. Another unexplained point i
s how this behaviour emerged for the first time during this alleged term of evolution. As with the wings of the insects, the eyes of the vertebrates and other biological miracles, how such sophisticated and beneficial faculties developed by evolving from 
the first living beings is a phenomenon which cannot be explained by the basic principles of evolution. It is a dead end for defenders of evolution. 
\par It would not of course, be logical to say that one day the larvae came together and said that "some of us h
ave to produce silk to meet the needs of the whole colony, so let us adjust our weights and silk glands accordingly." That would not be a very smart theory. We, therefore, have to admit that larvae have been created knowing what to do. In other words, All
ah, Who created these larvae, shaped them in such a way as is suitable for their tasks. 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\sb360\sa120\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5133142 \b\f8\fs22\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs26\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
Harvester Ants}{\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
Some of the ants, as mentioned before, are expert "farmers". Among these, it is possible to list harvester ants, apart from the Attas we talked about before. 
\par The feeding mechanisms of harvester ants are quite sophisticated and complex as compared to the f
eeding mechanisms of other types of ants. These collect seeds and keep them in specially prepared rooms. These seeds, made up of starch, are used for producing the sugar that will feed the larvae and other workers. While many ants use the seeds and kernel
s as food, only harvester ants have a system based on gathering seeds and processing them. 
\par These ants collect the seeds in the growing season and store them for use in the arid season. In special rooms in the nest, they sort out the seeds from other object
s mistakenly brought back. Some groups of ants stay in the nest by the hour, chewing the seeds' contents and thus producing so-called ant bread. The ants were once thought to use some learned process to convert the seeds' starch into the sugar they eat. I
t is now known that the abundant saliva they secrete while chewing accomplishes this transformation.}{\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 29}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
\par The ants we speak of here have not, of course, had any education in chemistry. Neither can they anticipate that their saliva will transform the seeds they
 collect randomly into sugar that they can eat. Yet, the lives of these ants depend on a series of chemical transformations that they do not know about and cannot know about. When even men do not know of such a transformation process taking place in the b
odies of the ants \endash  and they have just learned the details in the last few years \endash  how have the ants managed to be fed by this method for millenniums? 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\sb360\sa120\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5133142 \b\f8\fs22\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs26\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
\page Honey Ants}{\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949  
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
Many types of ants are fed with the digestive wastes of aphids called "honey". This substanc
e in fact bears no relation to real honey. However, the digestive waste of aphids, which have fed on plant sap, is given this name because it contains a high proportion of sugar. Thus, the workers of this species, called honey ants, collect honey from aph
i
ds, coccidae, and flowers. The ants' method of collecting honey from the aphid is very interesting. The ant approaches the aphid and starts shoving its belly. The aphid gives a drop of digestive waste to the ant. The ant starts shoving the belly of the ap
hid more and more to get more honey and sucks the liquid that comes out. Then how do they utilize this sugared food and what good is this food for them later on? 
\par There is a great division of labour among honey ants in this phase. Some ants are used as "jars" to keep the nectar collected by other workers!\'85 
\par In every nest, there is one queen, workers and also honey carriers. The colonies of these ants are usually located near the dwarf oak trees the workers can extract nectars from. After the workers carry th
e nectar, once having swallowed it, to their nests, they take it out of their mouths and pour it into the mouths of young workers who will keep the honey. These workers, nicknamed honeypots, use their own bodies to store the sweet liquid food the colony o
ften needs to get through hard times in the desert. They are fed until they swell up to the size of blueberries. Then they dangle like amber globes from the ceilings of their chambers until called upon to regurgitate nectar to hungry sisters.}{
\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 30}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949  While attach
ed to this ceiling, they look like a small and translucent bunch of grapes. If any of them falls down, the workers return it to its previous position right away. Honey in the honey pots weighs almost 8 times as much as an ant. 
\par In winter, or in the arid se
ason, ordinary workers visit the honey pots to meet their daily food demands. The worker ant places its mouth on to the "pot's" and the pot exudes a small drop of honey from its store by contracting its muscles. The workers consume this honey of high nutr
itional value as food in adverse seasons. 
\par It is an interesting and awe-inspiring situation for a living being to reach a weight 8 times its own, having decided to serve as a honey pot, and to be able to live hanging from its feet without any harm coming to
 it. Why have they felt the need to accept such a difficult and dangerous position? Have they thought about this unique storage technique themselves and controlled their bodily developments accordingly? Just think, while a man cannot even control the slig
htest development in his body, how can an ant, who does not even have a brain in the real sense, do this on its own? 
\par }\pard \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-280\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
Honey ants display behavior that the evolution theory cannot explain. It is totally illogical to maintain that they have developed the hone
y storage method and the organs required for it by chance. In fact, in scientific sources, we meet many realistic statements on this and similar subjects. Take, for instance, the explanation of Prof. Etienne Rabaud, Director of the Institute of Biology of
 the Paris University: 
\par }\pard\plain \s18\qj \li227\ri0\sb113\sa113\sl-280\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin227\itap0 \f8\fs18\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
These examples (for instance honey ants) show clearly that various organs have not been developed for performing certain functions by the living beings, although their prior existence has sometimes led to certain acts and tasks to be
 performed and sometimes not. This shows that the organs have not developed out of the adaptation by living beings to life conditions, but life conditions have arisen out of prior existence of such organs and out of their functions as we have seen. The fo
l
lowing question may be asked as Darwin did: Does the event of clearing, or weeding out of one who loses the capacity to live, or the adaptation of organs to new conditions take place in this evolution? We contend that events have proven that such an evolu
tion, or such a change, has not occurred. In fact, a totally different phenomenon has taken place.}{\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 31}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949  
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-280\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
These explanations given by Professor Rabaud show us clearly a conclusion that anyone may arrive at by thinking with his co
nscience for just a very short time. A sole Creator Who is the real source of knowledge and intellect has created all living beings with their faultless organs and perfect behaviour. This truth has been expressed in the Qur'an as follows:}{
\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782 
\par }{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid2436030\charrsid9585949 
\par }\pard\plain \s17\qj \li227\ri113\sb113\sa113\sl-280\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin113\lin227\itap0 \b\f8\fs18\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9502810 
He is Allah, the Creator, the Maker, the Giver of Forms. To Him belong the Most Beautiful Names: Everything in the heavens and earth glorifies Him. He is the Almighty, the All-Wise. (Surat Al-Hashr, 24)
\par }\pard\plain \s19\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\sb360\sa120\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5133142 \b\f8\fs22\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs26\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
Wood Ants}{\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949  
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-280\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
Wood ants are famous for the hills they build from pine ne
edles and thin branches on top of their underground nests. The nest is usually founded around a tree log. The portion of the nest above ground, made up of twigs, leaf stems, and pine needles, is the roof of the nest. This roof may reach up to 2 metres in 
height, it prevents seepage of rain inside and regulates the temperature of the nest in very hot or very cold weather.}{\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 32}{
\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949  
\par Wood ants, like the others, are also very hard working. They keep re-decorating their nests continuously. They transfer the original su
rface layer to the lower layers in stages and they bring up material from the lower layers to replace the upper level. An interesting observation was made of the changes the ants make in the nest. Blue dye was sprayed on top of the hill of the nest and in
 
four days it was observed that the top of the hill was again brown. Blue particles were found 8-10 cms below the surface. Within one month these particles went down to a depth of 40 cm. Subsequently, these blue particles have reached the surface once agai
n. 
\par Well, do these ants perform this continuous transportation process just for the sake of doing it? No. Researchers explain why wood ants engage in this perpetual act as follows: The perpetual motion dries the humid substances inside at the surface and pr
events the formation of fungi. Otherwise, the ants would have a nest occupied by harmful fungi. 
\par In such a situation there are two possibilities. One is that very long ago the ants, by their own research, discovered the fact that fungi develop in a humid e
nvironment, (something which man discovered as a result of long term scientific research) and developed the most rational method to eliminate this problem! The other possibility is that the conception and implementation of this perfect process can only be
 through inspiration by a supreme intellect. The impossibility of the first case is obvious. The One Who has inspired the ants to protect themselves from the fungi and shown them how to do so is, of course, the Almighty Allah. 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\sb360\sa120\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5133142 \b\f8\fs22\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs26\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
Different Reproduction Methods of Wood Ants}{\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949  
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
The males and queens of wood ants are winged. However, they do not fly by a nuptial flight as other small ant species do. Mating is realized on the surface of the nest or some place nearby. After mating, the queen picks off its wings and do
es one of the following three things: }{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782 
\par }{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid2436030\charrsid9585949 
\par }{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 (1) She returns to the nest where she has previously lived as a larva and leaves her eggs there. 
\par (2) Sometimes she leaves the nest with workers carrying her and looks for a new place to build a nest. 
\par (3) If she leaves on her own, she enters the nest of smaller related species, like the black ant }{\i\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 Formica Fusca}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
, and replaces the queen there. The queen leaves her eggs to be looked after by the Fusca workers in there. For a while there are both guest workers and host wo
rkers in the nest. However, since the hosts do not have a queen, after a while the workers die and the wood queens acquire an established nest without doing anything.}{\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 33}{
\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782 
\par }{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid2436030\charrsid9585949 
\par }{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 In the tactics of queen wood
 ants discussed in section 3, a clear consciousness is observed. However, it is obvious that such consciousness may not belong to the ant itself. The queen ant has never seen any place other than the few square metres within her nest. She goes inside a co
l
ony which she has never seen or has not known of before, and knows who she should eliminate in that colony. She achieves this by overcoming all obstacles. All these factors prove beyond doubt that the queen ant is acting under inspiration. The above menti
oned phenomena are clear proof of the power and sovereignty of Allah over all living creatures. 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\sb360\sa120\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5133142 \b\f8\fs22\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs26\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
Legionary Ants}{\expnd-1\expndtw-5\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949  
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\expnd-2\expndtw-10\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
One of the most feared animals of the forests is the legionary ant. The reason for the name "army" being given to this ant community is their acting under a true military discipline. 
\par Legionary ants are carnivores and they eat up everything in sight. Each ant is 6 to 12 millimetres long, but their incredible number and discipline make up for the disadvantage of their small size.
\par Direct sunlight ma
y kill the legionary ants in a short time. Therefore they travel either at night or in the shade. Due to their sensitivity to light, they dig long tunnels while advancing. Most of the ants run in these tunnels without going outside. This does not decrease
 their speed, because they can dig the tunnels very fast with their strong mandibles. Thus, running is both fast and secret. Legionaries move as very large armies, going over all obstructions except fire and water, although they are totally blind.}{
\fs22\expnd-2\expndtw-10\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 34}{\fs22\expnd-2\expndtw-10\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
\par Legiona
ry ants tear their prey apart where they find it and carry small pieces of it to their temporary nests. Quite a lot of food is needed for a legionary ant colony. The approximate daily need of a medium size colony, consisting of 80,000 adult ants and 30,00
0 larvae, is about half a gallon (2.27 litres) of animal product food.}{\fs22\expnd-2\expndtw-10\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 35}{\fs22\expnd-2\expndtw-10\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 

\par Since legionary ants do not have a fixed nest, they are always moving. The movements and migrations of the colonies depend on the production cycle. The quee
n produces approximately 25-35,000 eggs during two days each month. A few days before the laying of the eggs, the colony halts and gathers in a wide area. The ants hang on to each other by their hook shaped legs and form a temporary nest. The empty space 
i
n the middle acts as a chamber ready for the queen and the new generation. Here, naturally, the legs and joints of the ants at the very top are subject to excessive loading. Yet, since they are built to endure weights several hundred times more than their
 own weights, they can hold the whole colony without much problem.}{\fs22\expnd-2\expndtw-10\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 36}{\fs22\expnd-2\expndtw-10\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949  

\par To hunt most efficiently, the ants time their movements to the needs of a developing brood, alternating between sedentary and nomadic phases. During the resting period of about 20 days, t
he fat, immobile queen produces 50,000 to 100,000 eggs while other offspring lie in the quiescent pupal stage. On most days, workers, foraging only for themselves and the queen, make short raids from the nest in a rosette pattern. On each raid they vary t
heir direction by an average of 123 degrees, thus avoiding recombing the same ground.}{\fs22\expnd-2\expndtw-10\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 37}{
\fs22\expnd-2\expndtw-10\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
\par Ants can unerringly calculate the 123\'b0 by themselves, something which man cannot calculate without an instrument. This would appear to indicate a thorough knowledge of m
athematics. Yet ants do not know math, they cannot even count. So this shows that what they do is done by special inspiration, and not consciously. 
\par When the first larvae hatch, workers collect food and, in the meantime, the community stays stationary. Pie
ces of food are fed directly to the larvae. The queen's being ready for laying again usually coincides with earlier larvae's transition into the pupa stage. In this stage, the community stops once again. The coinciding of the laying of eggs by the queen a
nd the larvae going into the pupa stage indicates a conscious planning since it decreases the time for which the army stops. }{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
\par The development of larvae prompts the older ants to start a new migration cycle. This is how it works: larvae give out a secretion when they are licked and cleaned by the workers. Research has shown that this fluid is effective in the decision to migrate.
}{\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 38}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
\par It would be a weakness of logic to claim that larvae which have not even gained the identity of an ant yet, have thought of secre
ting such a fluid and have directed the whole colony towards fulfilling their needs. The only thing that a smart observer can spot is the existence of a supreme Creator and His information and sovereignty that are all around us. 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\sb360\sa120\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5133142 \b\f8\fs22\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs26\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
Velvet Ants}{\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 Velvet ants, w
hich lead their lives in deserts, have excessively hairy bodies. Their natural coat serves as a heat-isolating layer. It preserves the heat in during the cold nights of the desert, and protects them from the heat during the day. Male velvet ants, because 
of their wings, are able to avoid the heat of the sand by flying. Yet female velvet ants have to walk around on hot sand, because they have no wings. They need this coat to be protected from the heat coming from ground as well as from the sun. 
\par Then, what i
s the explanation for the insect having such a "coat" to protect it from adverse weather conditions? It is impossible to claim that the animal has acquired it by adapting to nature as part of the process of evolution, because this would lead to many quest
i
ons remaining unanswered: Did the female velvet ants die due to high temperatures before having such a coat? If this was the case, how did they wait for generations to have a coat "by coincidence"? Through what kind of a coincidence did they get this body
? 
\par These questions are, of course, without answers, because these insects could not have obtained their "coats" that protect them from the heat by the mechanisms evolutionists keep suggesting, because these ants cannot live without this coat, and they have 
no time to wait for mutations which occur very seldom - and which are all harmful. It is clear that the animals have been designed from the outset to withstand the climate they live in.
\par Female velvet ants look for any type of insect nest or bee hive that t
hey can use after leaving their place of mating. When they do, they go inside the nest. They are equipped to fend off any eviction attempts and eventually they stay on in the nest, because the velvet ants have strong arms and a shield which allow them to 
go inside even bee hives. Their outer shells are exceptionally thick and hard. Zoologists claim that they have difficulty in piercing the chest of the velvet ant with a steel pin.}{\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 39}
{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949  
\par Once inside, the velvet queen ant, which has all kinds of equipment with w
hich to settle in the bee hives, starts feeding on the honey stock. Also, it leaves its eggs in the pupa cells of the bees or their cocoons. The ant larvae that hatch, feed on host pupae and later on they become pupae also. Bees leave the nest at the end 
of summer. Velvet ants spend the winter in this nest as pupae. According to one record, in a bee nest, there have been found 76 velvet ants and only two bees.}{\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 40}{
\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949  This example shows how effective and successful the female velvet ant is in dealing with the fem
ale bee. The queen velvet ant, using subtle tactics, captures the nest from within and gains control of the nest herself. 
\par What can be said here is that the velvet ant knows the bees very well and, moreover, knows very well how to deceive them, too. Then c
an it be anybody other than the Creator of the bee Who inspires her with the physical characteristics of the bee, its life style and nest structure? The only logical explanation is the acceptance of the existence of a sole Creator Who has created ants, be
es and, in fact, all living beings. 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\sb360\sa120\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5133142 \b\f8\fs22\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs26\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
Fire Ants}{\b0\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949  
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
Fire ants are red insects of diminutive size. Yet they can achieve great things in spite of their smallness. The queens of these ants, which have 20 varieties in America alone, may produce as many as 5,000 egg
s a day. While many ant species colonies have a few hundred workers, the colonies of this species have about half a million workers. A single mated fire ant queen can produce a colony of 240,000 workers.}{
\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 41}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
\par Fire ant workers very aggressively attack their pr
ey with poisonous needles. It has been recorded that young fire ants have injured or even killed reptiles or baby deer. Also these aggressive ants may cause power failures by tearing up electricity cables. For a while they invaded South America and caused
 
frightening damage. The journals and magazines of that year tell us that these ants have chewed through electrical cables and caused power cuts; they have caused damage to crops worth billions of dollars; they have caused motorways to collapse and have st
ung people, causing allergic shocks that have rendered them helpless. They have done all this with their powerful mandibles, even digging tunnels under roads causing motorways, roads to collapse and also causing other kinds of havoc in the environment. 

\par }\pard\plain \s19\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\sb360\sa120\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\f8\fs22\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\i\fs26\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 Pro
tection from Germs}{\i\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
American experts have tried various methods to prevent the above-mentioned damage done by fire ants. They considered spreading a contagious disease inside the colony by injecting germs into the flies the ants eat. Yet, astonishingly, it 
was seen that such flies with germs in no way hurt the ants. In the analysis it was found out that the ants have one of the most interesting defence systems in the world of living beings: a structure in their throats which protect them from germs\'85
 Because of this structure, the bacteria in anything that the ants eat were held at the throat without entering into the body. 
\par But we have not come to the end of the protection systems of the fire ants that are the product of a superior intellect. They also spurt 
an anti-microbial fluid produced in their venom sacs around the nest and on the larvae. Thus, they achieve total disinfection of the nest and the larvae.}{\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 42}{
\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
\par These ants, equipped as they are with an extraordinary defence system, are certainly not aware of it. Can any person with a conscience claim that such a system has evolved by chance? Neither may it be claimed that the ants have founded such a system on th
e
ir own. Then who is it that placed this filter in the throats of the ants, and who inspired them to produce an anti-microbial fluid? Without doubt, the Creator of such characteristics as man, ants and random luck cannot produce is Allah, Who is All-Knowin
g. 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\sb360\sa120\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\f8\fs22\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\i\fs26\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
Hard Working Ants}{\i\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949  
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
The defense specialist fire ants are also highly skilled and hard working. They may build hills 30 cm high and 60 cm wide, or they can dig labyrinthine tunnels that can go 1.5 m deep under ground. In certain areas, fire ants have buil
t small hills numbering up to 350. The capacity of such small beings to set up such huge nests, of course, depends on their industriousness. Then what is the power that makes the ants one of the most industrious living beings in the world? It is truly ast
o
nishing that they work all day long without stopping or resting, and build nests dispersed over vast areas. Not a single one says, "I worked too hard today, let me rest a bit," or "I don't want to work today. Let me sit in a corner." This is a subject tha
t
 must be carefully considered. It must not be forgotten that there are times when human beings give in to exhaustion, even when they know they have to conclude a task, and there are times when they do not apply their will, because they are tired or they f
eel lazy. Yet ants display great effort and the will to bring any job they start to fruition. He Who gives the ants this will and resolve, that is even stronger than that of man's, is of course the sole master of all beings \endash  Allah. 
\par }\pard \s15\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\sb360\sa120\sl-294\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\b\i\fs26\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 Master Of Tactic Who Can Penetrate Defence Systems }{
\b\i\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
\par }\pard \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-294\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 The most frightening enemy of fire ants is }{
\i\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 Solenopsis Davgeri}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 , which is a parasitic ant species. This living being which can penetrate their multi-levele
d defence system, which even man has difficulty in understanding, is yet another ant species. It is not known how this parasite ant can "seep into" the nest of the fire ant. Yet once it is in, the parasite ant immediately attacks the queen and clamps on t
o
 her antenna, legs or thorax. While the worker ants normally have to destroy any aggressor, why they do nothing against this particular creature seems hard to explain. Yet there is a simple answer. In itself attaching to her throat, the parasite mimics th
e queen's pheromones. Subsequently, the workers devote their efforts to feeding the parasites, half a dozen of which might yoke the queen, because they think that this parasite imitating her }{
\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid15409917\charrsid9585949 pheromones}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949  is their queen. Their queen on the other hand starves to death in full view of the workers who serve her.}
{\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 43}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\sb360\sa120\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5133142 \b\f8\fs22\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs26\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
Desert Ants
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-294\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
It is impossible to live in burning sand at 150\'b0F for many living beings including man. Yet there are ants who can continue to live at this temperature. Well, how can }{\i\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
Namib Ocymyrmex}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 , which is a medium-sized, long-legged, black desert ant live in such intense heat? 
\par A typical day in the desert does not start at a certain time for Namib ants. What starts the day is the standard sand surface temperature having reached 30 degrees. Right at this p
oint the ants start getting out of their underground nests to look for food. Since their bodies are very cold, they cannot move straight and they walk with a wobble. Yet when the temperature increases, more ants come out and they start moving straighter a
n
d faster. The temperature where the in-out traffic of the nest is highest is 52.2 degrees. When the temperature goes above this point, the movement goes on, but as it reaches 67.8 degrees, the traffic stops. This temperature is reached about one hour befo
re noon. As the temperature starts falling in the afternoon, the food search starts again and continues until the surface temperature drops to 30 degrees. 
\par These ants may look for food for about six days away from the nest without becoming a prey to any animals. During this time they carry food home weighing 15-20 times their own weight. 
\par Ants, who find it impossible to return to the nest when the temperature in the desert becomes impossibly high, use quite an interesting method for protection from heat. The
 air temperature decreases as one rises above the sand. For instance, while the temperature of the sand is 67.8 degrees, a little above it, the air temperature is 55 degrees. Therefore, when the sand surface temperature is above 52.2 degrees, ants climb o
n
 to objects like plants and stay there for a while to cool. The temperature of the small body of the ant soon falls to the ambient temperature. In tree trunks, the temperature varies between 30 and 38.3 degrees. These cooling breaks make it possible for t
he ant to look for food in burning heat, albeit intermittently.
\par In high temperatures, if the ant cannot find a cool place within a few seconds, it is going to die from heat. In fact, in sand temperatures of over 52.2 degrees, they take such a risk every tim
e they leave their nests. Then how have desert ants escaped this inevitable end? Since they do not measure the temperature with a }{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid15409917\charrsid9585949 thermometer}{
\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 , we can safely say that they came into existence knowing what to do at what temperature \endash  and knowing these things from the very first time they left the nest. 
\par }\pard \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
Yes, the desert ant has been created and equipped with special features to live in the desert. Allah, Who has created a sharp mandible for leaf cutter ants has inspired in the desert ants the knowledge of how to protect themselves. 
\par }\pard \s15\qc \fi284\li0\ri0\sb480\sa120\sl480\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5133142 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 \page }{
\b\fs36\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 SYMBIOSIS
\par }\pard \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-294\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
There is a basic logic to be used in analyzing evidence of the creation of living beings. We can explain this logic with a simple example. 
\par }\pard \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 While walking on barren land, you suddenly find a metal key on the ground. Imagin
e that you pick up this key without knowing what it's good for and you keep on walking. Again imagine that you come up to an empty house a few hundred metres from where you found the key. And again imagine that you try the key in the lock of the house, th
inking it might work. 
\par If the key opens the door of this house easily, what conclusion do you arrive at logically? 
\par It is simple. You conclude that this key belongs to the door of this house. That is, it has been designed specially to open this lock. It is 
obvious that the same craftsman has manufactured both the lock and the key. Therefore the harmony between them is the product of a conscious design. 
\par Yet, if somebody says to you, "You're wrong. The key you found bears no relation to that lock. It is pure 
coincidence that that key fits that lock, what do you think?" Of course, you will find this proposition deficient in logic, because in this world there are millions of locks and millions of keys that do not fit. It is obviously impossible for two that fit
 perfectly, out of millions of different ones, to be located beside each other }{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid15409917\charrsid9585949 coincidentally}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 . 
\par Especially if the said key is quite complex with all kinds of ins and outs, that is if it is not straight and simple like a room key. The claim of "coincidence" 
becomes even more absurd because, each detail on the key must have its counterpart in the lock as well, thus decreasing the probability of this coincidence millions of times. 
\par If there are three locks to the door and you have found not one but three keys l
ying beside each other and all three keys have each opened one of the locks, would you believe an allegation that these keys are pieces of metal that fit the locks by chance? Furthermore, would you not think that the person who makes such a claim either h
as mental problems or is trying to deceive you and hide something from you? 
\par The logical result presented by this example is simple but very significant: If there is a one-to-one fit between two independent pieces, that is, all details of these two pieces a
re in perfect harmony, this proves that there is a deliberate design somewhere. The key fits the lock because it has been consciously made by a skilled craftsman. A video cassette goes into a video machine easily and sits in it perfectly because it has be
en designed by a purposeful designer. 
\par Looking at all these, the following general solution may be arrived at. If there is harmony between two living beings which is realized by the perfect fit of different organs, we can say that this harmony is c
lear proof of conscious creation. Since the existing harmony indicates a consciousness that may not be explained by chance and since the source of this consciousness may not be these animals, it is inevitable that we accept the existence of a conscious Cr
eator Who "designs" these animals. 
\par Now, we can re-enter the world of the ants by using this fundamental logic. Our subject in this chapter is certain living beings, who live together and show striking harmony with the ants. 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\sb360\sa120\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5133142 \b\f8\fs22\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs26\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
\page Animals Who Live Together With the Ants 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
It has been known for over a century that many species of insects exist which live together with the ants and that there are symbiotic relations between them. Many of these do this as ransackers. The others live as dependants for part or all of 
their lives in the ant colony. These parasitic visitors of ants include various insects, such as sacred beetles, ticks, flies and wasps. 
\par Some of these may live in the ant nests and benefit from all social rights. In certain cases, the ants tolerate them, 
although they eat the larvae and eggs of their hosts. They are not only admitted into the nest, but their larvae are fed and raised as if they were the hosts'. 
\par Well, why do the ants allow such aggression and how is it that these insects can stay in the nest of an ant which has had a superior defence system for years? Let us analyze the phases of this inexplicable phenomenon. 
\par As you know, there is a complex communication system within the ant colony. Because of this system, the ants may distinguish members
 of their colonies from strangers. This distinguishing ability serves as "a social defence system". However, the visitors we mention above manage to get into the ant nests by various techniques. This shows that they have somehow solved the communication a
nd distinguishing ciphers of the ants. In other words, they have the ability to talk ant language by mechanical and chemical methods. 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\sb360\sa120\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5133142 \b\f8\fs22\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs26\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
Mimicry
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
There is a typical movement that an ant makes when it meets another ant. It touches the other ant lightly with its
 antenna and checks its pheromones. Then, both ants go on their way. It is known that they do this to identify each other and to protect themselves from alien creatures.
\par Worker ants do the same thing when they meet insects living in their nests. Sometimes 
they realize that the other creature is someone different and throw it out of the nest. Yet sometimes they treat the other insect as if it were an ant. This acceptance takes place due to chemical mimicry by the said insects. 
\par It has been conclusively accep
ted that insects achieve this mimicry totally by chemicals, because ants have thrown out insects very similar to them physically when they found them different chemically. Yet certain parasites that have no resemblance to ants at all have been accepted as
 if they were members of the ant nest.}{\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 44}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
 It is very difficult to explain how such insect species learn to imitate the chemical characteristics of the ants. Such a thing can only be explained by these pheromones being added to these insects by design. An ins
ect could not solve a chemical reaction, even if it lived for millions of years. Therefore, it must have acquired such characteristics by the conscious design of the Creator. 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\sb360\sa120\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5133142 \b\f8\fs22\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs26\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
Hydrocarbon-Producing Insect and Fire Ants 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
The scarabaeid beetle, which is an i
nsect species, and fire ants are able to live together, because the hydrocarbons they are coated with are identical. It is quite astonishing that a harmonious relationship exists between these two living beings, despite the fact that the beetles prey on t
he ants. Then how can this harmony be explained?
\par These beetles are coated with a series of hydrocarbons identical to those of one of their fire ant hosts. They also possess a second set of high-molecular-weight hydrocarbons peculiar to themselves. When thei
r adults are isolated from the ant hosts, they lose the hydrocarbons they share with their hosts but retain their own, heavier hydrocarbons. When subsequently introduced into colonies of a second fire ant host species, this time they acquire the hydrocarb
ons of this ant host species.}{\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 45}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
\par When the beetle first enters the nest of the fire ants, it depends on its heavily armored exoskeleton and tries to protect itself by pretending that it is dead. In a few days, after enough hydrocarbons are absorbed by the bee
tle, it gains full acceptance into the ant society.}{\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 46}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
\par How can an insect of this species imitate any odor and secrete it in its own body? How does it know that by producing this odor it will be able to fool the ants into admitting it to their nest? Can a bug achieve all this on its own?
\par Of course not. Getting to know the ants by their chemical and physical characteristics is just not something that a bug can do on its own. It would be quite absurd to say that these bugs have gone through evolution by living 
with the ants for a long time and eventually developed the ability to produce the odor of the ants chemically. No mutation or coincidence can lead to the development of such a complex characteristic. The only possible conclusion is the existence of a Crea
t
or, Who has given powers of recognition and mimicry to this bug. The One Who makes it possible for ants and bugs to exist in harmony together and Who prevents their acting in a hostile manner towards each other, is Allah, the Creator of the two animal spe
cies. 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\sb360\sa120\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5133142 \b\f8\fs22\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs26\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
Visitors of Army Ants 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
There are mites that live on the bodies of army ants. One of these mite species feeds on the blood taken from the terminal membranous lobe of the hind part of the ant they live on, or the fatty secretions on the bodies of their
 hosts. Sometimes these mites live on the tip of the rear leg of the ant and, at times, they allow their whole bodies to be used by the host ant as a substitute for the terminal segment of the foot. 
\par As explained before, army ants form clusters by hooking 
their tarsal claws over the legs of other workers when they form temporary nests. In small laboratory nests, it has been observed that when a worker hooked the leg with the mite onto the nest or another worker, the hind legs of the mite usually served in 
place of the ant's tarsal claws. These mites, with their holdfast mechanisms such as teeth on their enlarged dorsa, have been equipped with appropriate posterior formations that adapt the mites to specific regions of the hosts' bodies.}{
\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 47}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
\par It is impossible that these two creatures who are complementary to each other, have found each other among thousands of species living in nature only by a lucky chance. The probability of these two species \endash  which depend on each other for survival 
\endash  having met one day, havin
g seen that their bodies were suitable for co-existence and having decided on symbiosis is zero. Therefore, this perfect harmony is likewise just another one of the details showing perfect creation by Allah. Yet these small details are too valuable to pas
s by. These examples, of which we may witness thousands or millions every day, have been created so that man may see the infinite power, the knowledge and the fine art of Allah. 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\sb360\sa120\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\f8\fs22\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs26\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid15409917 
\par }\pard \s19\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\sb360\sa120\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5133142 {\fs26\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 Smart Fly Larva
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
The bodies of the ants form a very suitable location for parasitic beings. Therefore many species of parasites choose as their homes the bodies of ants. The }{\i\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 Strongygaster globula, }{
\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 which is a type of fly, deserves special mention. 
\par The larvae of this fly develop as endoparasites inside the gaster of colony-founding q
ueen. The behaviour of the infected queen is not noticeably affected apart, except that they cease to lay eggs. When the last-instar larva of the parasite leaves the body of the host, it quickly pupates and is groomed and tended by the host ants as if it 
were a member of the ants' own brood. Yet, during the flying phase, this friendly attitude is abandoned and the fly is forced to leave the nest and the queen ant dies after the parasites leave the nest.}{
\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 48}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
\par The settling of fly larvae on the body of the ant, a
nd its living on it, is truly an exceptional situation. It is impossible for a newly born creature to have chosen the body of a queen ant as a home for itself. The choosing by the mother fly of such a location to lay her eggs can be possible only if she h
a
s a prior and thorough knowledge of the body and life style of the ant. Because in its own habitat, there are hundreds of different living species that it may leave its eggs on. The fly, which is attentive towards its babies, identifies the most suitable 
o
ne and for its home, selects the queen ant. However, it is impossible for her to anticipate that her eggs will grow here under protection and that the ants will in fact take care of them. Because a fly is a totally different creature from an ant and it is
 impossible for it to know anything about the ant. 
\par Then we c
an say that this correct decision made by the fly is not the result of "foreseeing the future" by this small animal, but a program within it, in other words, a given inspiration. The One Who places the larva in the most appropriate living area is Allah, W
ho is totally sovereign over the fly and the ant and has infinite knowledge of them, because He is the Creator, Owner and Sovereign of all living beings. 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\sb360\sa120\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5133142 \b\f8\fs22\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs26\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
Secret of Blue Butterflies
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
In 1979, the large blue butterfly died out from its last breeding sites in 
England. Researchers who studied were not able to find out for a long time why the butterfly disappeared as there seemed to be plenty of the right habitat (rough grassland), with lots of the wild thyme plants on which the butterfly lays its eggs. Actually
, the secret was hidden in the amazing life cycle of the butterfly. 
\par After the caterpillars hatch, they feed on thyme for about three weeks. Then they drop to the ground and give out a liquid that is attractive to red ants. When a red ant appears, the cater
pillar rears up and swells the skin behind its head, tricking the ant into thinking it is one of its own grubs. The ant carries the caterpillar back to its nest, and it lives in the nest for almost a year, feeding on the ant grubs and spending the winter 
in hibernation. In spring, it makes a silk cocoon. While inside the cocoon, it slowly changes into an adult butterfly, before finally leaving the nest in midsummer. 
\par The discovery of this parasitism has eliminated the shroud of secrecy over the extinction o
f the butterfly species. Due to an ecological change in the region, the red ants had moved away and the caterpillars that hatched there were killed by other ant species, which were not fooled by them.}{
\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 49}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
\par Now, the questions to be answered are the following: Could this co-existence have been formed by luck? How does the butterfly \endash  as a caterpillar, which is not even an adult butterfly yet \endash 
 know how to fool an ant? How have the organs come into being which make it possible for it to look like an ant when infl
ating its back? Since evolutionists do not accept conscious creation, they would argue that these organs have emerged by coincidence. Yet no coincidence can result in such a perfect likeness. It is impossible for this similarity to have formed in time in 
s
tages, because a caterpillar which has not yet acquired this likeness would be hunted down by the ants and would not be able to survive. Since it is impossible for the caterpillar to give shape to itself consciously, the only answer is that this animal wa
s given its shape and made to resemble the ant by a Creating Will, that is, Allah. 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\qj \li0\ri0\sb360\sa120\sl480\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid15409917 \b\f8\fs22\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs26\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
Parasites that are Fed from the Mouth of the Ant
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
A type of parasite beetle called }{\i\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 Dinarda}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
, patrols through the peripheral nest chambers, where they feed on arthropod prey br
ought in by the host ants. It also taps into the liquid flow of its hosts. This parasite wanders around the peripheral chambers of the nest where the newly returning foragers and nest workers share food. Its tactic is to furtively touch the labium of an a
n
t, causing the ant to regurgitate a small droplet of food. Actually, by this feeding method, it places itself in enormous danger, because once the ant realizes that the parasite is a stranger, it is going to assume the attack position. Yet the parasite ha
s
 taken its precautions against such circumstances. When it sees that the ant is getting ready to attack, it raises its abdomen and offers the ant the appeasement secretions at the abdominal tip. The attack ceases as soon as the ant licks the abdominal tip
, and the parasite makes its escape during this brief interlude.}{\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 50}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\sb360\sa120\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5133142 \b\f8\fs22\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs26\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
Smart Immigrants 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 Some insect species }{
\i\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 (Atemeles)}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949  emigrate from the ant nest }{\i\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
(Formica)}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949  where they have been raised during the summer, to the nests of another ant genus }{\i\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 (Myrmica)}{
\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 . After wintering there, they return to their original nest to breed in the springtime. There is of course a reason for these moves: In the }{
\i\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 Formica}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949  nests, the immature stages disappear during the winter, and consequently social food flow is reduced. In con
trast, the }{\i\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 Myrmica}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949  colony maintains brood throughout the winter and high-grade food sources are available for the }
{\i\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 Atemeles}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 .}{\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 51}{
\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
\par The }{\i\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 Atameles}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949  face a major problem in finding their way from one host species to another. The }{
\i\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 Formica}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949  nests normally occur in woodland and the }{
\i\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 Myrmica}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949  nests are found in grassland around the woods. The }{
\i\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 Atameles}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949  that leave the }{\i\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 Formica}{
\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949  nest have discovered a very important method of finding their way: they orient towards light and reach the relatively open }{
\i\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 Myrmica}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949  habitat. Yet when they arrive there, another problem awaits them. They have to distinguish the }{
\i\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 Myrmica}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
 ants from the other species present and locate their nests. Research has revealed that the migrants identify the }{\i\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 Myrmica}{
\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949  nests innately by specific odors.}{\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 52}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
 In short, these immigrants have the capacity to distinguish between the odors of ant colonies, apart from their skill in finding their direction by the aid of light. 
\par These migrants who change nests twice a year are very interesting, because they are accepted by both ant sp
ecies and are able to adapt to the nest environment immediately. Wasmann, who has been doing research on ants for many years, believes that this species is the most advanced cohabitant with its still unsolved adaptation method. They have a very astonishin
g
 feature that they use in getting themselves admitted to the nest they are migrating to. These migrants have appeasement glands, the secretions of which are immediately licked up by the ant and suppress aggressive behaviour. This chemical is so strong tha
t it was observed that the ants treat the parasite a lot more "gently" when they spurt this secretion on to their host ants.}{\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 53}{
\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
\par Such conscious activities of migrant bugs set one to thinking. As this bug knows when to move to which nest, it must know ants in 
every way. Then how has this migration adventure started? First of all, it must choose among many species of insects and decide to cohabit in an ant nest. After making this tough selection among hundreds of species of insects, it must pick the one most su
i
table for it among 8800 ant species and then realize that the food supply of the selected ants is decreasing during winter. Then after noticing this, it must discover the nest where food is abundant in winter. The creature who has to make all these decisi
ons is an insect such as we will probably never come across in our entire lives. It is quite illogical to expect an insect to make such decisions. 
\par Still, even if we believe that this system has developed in such a way, the questions we face do not come to 
an end. How does this insect arrive at the nest while moving from one nest to the other? When it's very difficult to find the way in the forest even for an intelligent person, how can a migrant insect which is one thousandth the size of a man contrive to 
find an ant hill in a huge forest? 
\par The answer, "by orienting toward light" does not really provide any explanation, because light may be coming from at least 2-3 different fronts. There are areas many square metres wide, where it arrives by orienting towar
d light, before the nest it seeks may be found. (Let us not forget that for a creature the size of an insect, an area measured in square metres is the same as several square kilometres for us). Here, the odor recognition process starts, but that too is qu
i
te astonishing, because it is very difficult to distinguish a single odor from all the others in a forest where hundreds of ant colonies live and where also thousands of different odors other than those of the ants exist. Moreover, it is interesting that 
an insect, which spends a whole summer somewhere else, can keep this odor in its memory. 
\par Lastly, let us think about the following: even if we pick up this insect and put it in front of the entry to the suitable ant nest ourselves, it will be very difficult
 for it to live in it because, as we know, ants also have very strong recognition ability. As they do not accept even an ant which does not belong to their colony, they will of course treat this insect as hostile and will throw it out of the nest. However
,
 things do not turn out like this and the insect is treated quite hospitably. It is argued that this is because of the positive effect of a chemical which it gives out from its body. Then how does the migrant insect know that it can influence the ants wit
h this substance and understand that it can reverse this hostile behaviour? Has it succeeded in producing the ideal substance by deciding to manufacture it itself?
\par Of course, it is impossible to answer these questions positively. There is an obvious picture
 that one can see. The said insect is doing things which require serious intelligence and a sense of judgement. Yet, it would be absurd to think of the ability to think and to judge in such a creature as does not even have a brain. We have to admit that t
he source of intelligence in the things the insect does is another power "outside" the animal.
\par Evolutionists have produced the phrase intuition to overcome this dead end that they are facing, and they have argued that animal behaviour is the result of certa
in motives of unknown source. Yet this phrase is just whitewashing and does not change anything. The picture is still clear: There are motives which dominate the animal that are the result of an intelligent programming. Since there is no intelligent progr
a
mming by the animal itself, the source of such motives must be another power ruling the animal. This power belongs to Him Who is not seen, but rules over the visible world with supreme wisdom and reflects such knowledge in living beings, like insects, whi
ch are themselves not endowed with consciousness. 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\sb360\sa120\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\f8\fs22\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs26\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid15409917 
\par }\pard \s19\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\sb360\sa120\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5133142 {\fs26\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 Insect that Feigns Death
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
Ant nests provide a high concentration of food resources, a refuge from predators and severe climatic change for a beetle genus that lives in the deserts of the }{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid15409917\charrsid9585949 south-western}{
\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949  USA and Mexico. Once these beetles manage to integrate themselves into an ant society, they directly go to a brooding room and feed on ant larvae. 
\par These have developed various techniques to get inside an ant nest. Some species march directly through the nest e
ntrance, or burrow through thatch piles into the interior. The beetles are very well protected by their heavily sclerotized cuticle that the ants are unable to kill them. They can only attack in unison and throw them out. 
\par Unsuccessful bugs never give up. 
This time they feign death when approached by ants, so that they are mistaken for prey items and gain access to the nest. To fool the ants, these bugs expertly feign death by retracting their antennae and sticking out their legs.}{
\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 54}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
\par Once they reach the egg 
chambers, the ants for some reason ignore these beetles. Research has shown that while these bugs are feed on ant brood, trichome secretions secreted by the beetle distract workers, reduce aggression, and prevent workers from evacuating brood.}{
\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 55}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949  
\par Als
o these "intelligent" beetles leave their own larvae in the ant nest. Their larvae develop within piles of vegetable matter. Although they lack morphological adaptations for defense from their hosts, they are ignored by ant workers and, even if they are a
ttacked by highly excited ants, they defend themselves against the ants and escape maneuvers.}{\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 56}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\sb360\sa120\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5133142 \b\f8\fs22\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs26\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
Fly Larvae That Know Ants 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
We are going to see a striking and perfect example of creation below: the fly larvae that can do mimicry. 
\par The larvae of syrphid flies }{\i\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 (Microdon)}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
 overwinter deep within the ant nest and, in spring, they move to the surface of the nest to pupate. In the course of research, the larvae were observed to disappear immediately upon hatching and they were thought to be dead, with a single remai
ning larva clinging to the outer surface of an ant cocoon. The magnification revealed the larva becoming rounder and rounder, as if it were exerting pressure to distort its shape. Suddenly, it was simply gone. The larva had inserted its mouth hooks into t
h
e silken cocoon and created a hole large enough to allow it to enter. The disappearing larvae were simply inside the cocoons, feeding on the ant pupae and molting into the next larval stage. Microdon larvae, at later stages, folded themselves lengthwise u
ntil they were practically indistinguishable from ant cocoons. After this transformation, agitated worker ants arrived, seized the impostor young, and carried them to the safe depths of the nest.}{
\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 57}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949  
\par This was an unusual case of mimicry. The ants perceived th
e fly larvae to be ant cocoons. During research, it was noticed that the chemistry of the outer, hard cuticle of the larval flies and that of larval ants matched almost perfectly. In other words, fly larvae were able to imitate ant cocoons chemically as w
ell. 
\par Chemical analysis confirmed that this was a case of true chemical mimicry. Then how could the Microdon larvae employ this mimicry? 
\par On the underside of the larvae are elaborate protuberances, the function of which was not known. It is now suspected that they contain glands or glandular openings for secreting the chemicals that the larvae use to mimic their hosts.}{
\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 58}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
\par Then, how can a being who does not even know the meaning of "chemistry" perform such an impersonation? And only the larvae of Microdon flie
s have such a defence system, never the adults. Since this ability of impersonation is not known in adult flies, it is not something which can be thought out. This means that the larvae have this ability from birth. 
\par No coincidence can implant a chemical order in the body of a larva that will cause it to impersonate ants. The only conclusion that may be derived from this event is that the larvae are born into this world already equipped with this feature. 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\qj \li0\ri0\sb360\sa120\sl480\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid15409917 \b\f8\fs22\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs26\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
Woodman Ants and Aphids 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 Up until now, what you hav
e read about ants has given you a general idea about the ant world. But this is just the beginning, because there are many different species in the world of ants equipped with characteristics we do not know about. One of them is the "milkman ant" which is
 also known as the woodman ant. 
\par The woodman ants in question obtain milk from leaves via aphids. This cooperation between ants and aphids is one of the most interesting relationships in the whole world of insects. 
\par Aphids which are placed on the leaves by 
ants feed on the phloem sap of plants. The plant sap that enters the body of the aphid is converted into the substance called "honeydew". The ants, which like honeydew, have found a way for aphids to give this food to them. A hungry ant approaches the aph
id and starts brushing its abdomen with its feelers and antennae. The aphid likes this very much and emits a droplet of honeydew and gives it to the ant. In return, the ants look after their aphids very well.}{
\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 59}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
\par In the autumn, the ants pick up the aphid eggs and keep them in their nest until they hatch. Later on, they place the young aphids on the roots of various plants, so that they suck the sap and provide milk to the milkman ants. 
\par At this point the question would be: When there are thousands of living beings in the world, how do the milkman ants know of this characteristic of the aphids? How can they select them from among all the other creatures? 
\par It is, of course, impossible to evaluate as a chain of accidents the fluid that comes out of the aphid being
 exactly what the ant needs and the ant's knowing what the aphid would like and its patting it against the food it is going to receive. Once again, there is a designed pairing, a great harmony and therefore an obvious creation. 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\sb360\sa120\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5133142 \b\f8\fs22\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs26\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
Plants that Cohabit With Ants 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 The East Indian pitcher plant, }
{\i\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 Nepenthes Bicalcarata}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
, harbors ant colonies in the hollow stem of the same pitcher-shaped leaf by which it captures and digests other kinds of insects. Yet the ants are free to roam over this carnivorous plant, gathering 
insects and other food items of their own. The ants and the plant are engaged in a trade-off of mutual benefit. The ants risk being eaten by the plant, but they get a home. The plant surrenders some tissue space and insect prey to the ants and, in return,
 gains protection from herbivores.}{\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 60}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949  
\par This example defines the outlines of symbiosis between plants and ants. The anatomies and physiological structures of the ants and their host plant have been designed to provide this mutual relationship between them. Al
though defenders of evolution say that these interspecies relationships have gradually grown over millions of years, it is obvious that any claim that two such creatures as have no intelligence could agree to arrange a mutually beneficial system is untena
ble. 
\par Then what is it that causes the ants to live on plants? 
\par The tendency of the ants to live on plants is the result of sugar-producing organs of the plant called "extrafloral nectaries". When active, nectaries attract worker ants, who tend to defend the
m from other insects. There is some evidence that the plants time their secretions in a way that enhances the protective role of the nectaries. For instance, the nectaries of the black cherry tree are most active during the first three weeks after budbrea
k. It is certainly not a coincidence that the same three-week period is the only time that eastern tent caterpillars which are the major defoliators of the black cherry, are small enough to be captured and killed by the ants.}{
\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 61}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949  
\par To see how obviously this is
 evidence of creation, one needs nothing other than normal common sense. It is, of course, impossible to accept that the tree has calculated the period in which it is subject to the most harm and has decided that the best way to protect itself during this
 
period would be to attract ants and that, to this end, it has produced a structural change in its own chemistry. The tree has no brain. Therefore, it can neither think, calculate, nor adjust its own chemicals. To think that this rational procedure is a ch
aracteristic acquired as a result of coincidence \endash  which is the logic of evolution \endash  is totally absurd. In a very obvious way, the tree is doing something which is the result of intelligence and knowledge. 
\par Therefore, the only conclusion that may be reached
 here is that this feature of the tree has been formed by the will which has created the tree. It is obvious from the arrangements He has made that He is not only sovereign over the tree but also over the ants and caterpillars. If research is taken beyond
 
this point, it is observable that, in fact, He dominates the whole of nature and has organized each component of nature separately and in harmony, thus founding the perfect system that we call "ecological balance". We can advance further and go into the d
o
mains of geology and astronomy. Everywhere we are going to face the same situation, with countless systems that function in harmony within a perfect order. These systems all indicate the existence of an organizer. Yet, none of the entities making up the s
ystems are themselves organizers. 
\par }\pard\plain \s17\qj \li227\ri113\sb113\sa113\sl-280\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin113\lin227\itap0 \b\f8\fs18\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9502810 
"Is then He Who creates like one who does not create? Will you not take heed?" (Surat an-Nahl, 17)
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
Then that organizer must be a Will Who is aware of and sovereign over the whole universe. The Qur'an describes Him as follows: 
\par }\pard\plain \s17\qj \li227\ri113\sb113\sa113\sl-280\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin113\lin227\itap0 \b\f8\fs18\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9502810 
He is Allah, the Creator, the Maker, the Giver of Forms. To Him belong the Most Beautiful Names: Everything in the heavens and earth glorifies Him. He is the Almighty, the All-Wise. (Surat Al-Hashr, 24) 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\sb360\sa120\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5133142 \b\f8\fs22\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs26\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
The Acacia Tree and Ants 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 Acacia trees grow thr
oughout the tropical and subtropical regions of the world and are protected by thorns. An ant species that lives on African acacias gnaws an entry hole in the walls of the thorns and lives permanently inside the acacia tree. Each colony of ants inhabits t
he thorns on one or more trees and feeds on the nectars of the acacia leaves. These colonies also eat the caterpillars and other organisms they find on the tree. 
\par The nectar of the acacia trunk is very rich in oils and proteins. Thomas Belt, who first descr
ibed these bodies, noted that their only apparent function was to nourish the ants. Ants, which live on these trees, obtain sugars from the nectaries and feed them to their larvae.}{\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 62
}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949  
\par What is it that the tree expects from the ants in return for its produce? 
\par The worker ants, which swarm over the surface of the plant, are very aggressive toward other insects and, indeed, towards animals of all sizes. When their tree is brushed by an animal, they swarm out and attack at once, inflicting painfully burning bite
s. Moreover, other plants sprouting within as much as a meter of occupied acacias are chewed and mauled, and their bark is girdled. Twigs and branches of other trees that touch an occupied acacia are similarly destroyed.}{
\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 63}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
\par It has been shown that acacia tre
es which have no ants are more vulnerable to attack by their insect herbivores. In an experiment, it was observed that alien plants that sprouted within a radius of 40 centimeters of the occupied acacia trunks were chewed and mauled by the ants until they
 
died. Ants even attacked other plants whose leaves or branches touched the canopy of the acacia. Up to one-fourth of the entire ant population were active on the surfaces of the control plants, day and night, constantly patrolling and cleaning them. The c
onclusion researchers have arrived at is as follows: The ants are "kept by the acacia as a standing army".}{\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 64}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
 Since the awareness which would promote such a negotiation is not within the capability of either side, it must be accepted that this balance must have been established by the will of Allah Who created both parties to the agreement. 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\sb360\sa120\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5133142 \b\f8\fs22\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs26\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
Ant Hotels
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
In some plant species, there are some plant structures called "domatia" in biological terminology. These serve no evident purpose other than to shelter ant col
onies. They have holes or thin windows of tissue through which ants can conveniently enter and leave. Species with domatia usually also manufacture food bodies, which are unique structures with no known function other than the feeding of ants. The only fu
nction of "food bodies" is just feeding of ants. They have no apparent benefit for the plant.}{\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 65}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
 In short, domatias are very special structures that are formed so that the ants may maintain their lives. Their temperature and humidity are ideally balanced to 
suit the ants' requirements. Ants live comfortably in these special places prepared just for them, almost as men do in quality hotels. 
\par It is not possible to claim that these structures materialize by luck, that they produce food for ants by coincidence and that they take on need-based forms. 
\par Ant-plant relationships are just one of the proofs of the incredible equilibrium created by a sole Creator on this earth. Furthermore, this relationship is mutual. The services ants provide against the services of the
 plants are very important factors in the plants of the world being so efficient. Ants enrich the earth in carbon by cultivating it, adding nutrition to it by their waste and excretion, and keeping the ambient temperature and humidity at an appropriate le
vel. Therefore, plant species near ant nests are better off than those in other areas. 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\sb360\sa120\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5133142 \b\f8\fs22\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs26\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
Ant Plant and Nitrogen Source Ant
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 An ant species (}{
\i\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 Philidris}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 ) and its host plant (}{\i\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 Dischidia major
}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 ) produce a very complex set of chemicals all throughout their lives. 
\par This plant has no roots that go underground. Therefore, it winds along other plants to get support. It has a very interesting method for increasing its carbon and nitrogen gain. 
\par Ants have a storage area in this plant where they raise their young and hide or
ganic residues (dead ants, insect pieces, etc.) called "ant leaf". The plant uses these residues as a source of nitrogen. Also, the interior surfaces of the leaf spaces absorb the carbon dioxide given out by the ant, thus reducing dehydration from the por
es.}{\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 66}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
 Prevention of dehydration is very important for these ant plants that grow in tropical climates, because they can never reach the water in the soil, since they have no roots. Thus, ants provide for two important needs of the plant in return for its pr
oviding shelter for them. 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\qj \li0\ri0\sb360\sa120\sl480\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid15409917 \b\f8\fs22\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs26\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
Ants That Feed Their Hosts
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
Certain ants feed their host plants. Just such a relationship has been documented in the genera }{\i\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 Hydnophytum}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949  and }{
\i\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 Myrmecodia}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 . The workers of }{\i\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 Myrmecodia}{
\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949  discard the remains of prey in the cavities lined wi
th absorptive tissues, while sequestering their own brood in special chambers lined with tough, nonabsorptive cells. Ants live in these chambers but make an interesting differentiation between them. The absorptive surfaces are dotted with small lenticular
 warts. Each of the two zones serves a separate function, namely the feeding of the plant and the housing of the ant brood. 
\par Scientists have carried out a very interesting test on this subject. Using radioactive tracers, they demonstrated that this differen
tiation is indeed the case. The pseudobulbs absorbed phosphate, sulfate, and methionine from waste material deposited by the worker ants, as well as various breakdown products of decomposing }{
\i\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 Drosophila}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949  larvae. Most of the activity was concentrated in the warted areas. In short, the ants feed the plants.}{
\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 67}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\sb360\sa120\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5133142 \b\f8\fs22\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs26\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
Piper Plant and Brown Ant
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
The relationship between the piper plant and the ants is perhaps the most interesting of all these we have looked at so far. The ant plant called piper (treelets in the black pepp
er family) grows in the shade of the tropical forest of Central America. It is a plant that provides both food and shelter for brown ants (}{\i\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 Pheidole Bicornis}{
\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 ). By the time young Piper trees have just two or three full-sized leaves, one of the leaf bases - hollow swellings between the branch and the leaf itself \endash 
 usually contains a Pheidole queen. The queen colonizes a Piper sapling by chewing an entrance hole and laying eggs inside the leaf base. When her eggs first hatch into larvae, she and the young occup
y one of the leaf bases, but as the colony grows, the worker ants advance gradually throughout the stem pith tissue, and the entire plant becomes a domicile.}{\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 68}{
\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
\par This plant is also a source of food for the ants. The inside surface of the expanded leaf bases produces for them single-celled food bodies. Ants pluck these oil-and protein-rich morsels from the walls and feed them to their larvae.}{
\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 69}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
\par These rich foods that the ants will perhaps never find elsewhere, are presented to them by the piper. These ants move
 towards the pipers that will provide them with the best care, shelter and food each year and build their nests in the parts of the plant most suitable for them. 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\sb360\sa120\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\f8\fs22\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs26\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid15409917 
\par }{\fs26\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 "Smart" Piper
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 The genus }{
\i\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 Piper}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
 that serves as a food source has another very interesting feature. In other plant species, the food bodies grow spontaneously, whereas piper plants do this only when the plant is occupied by ants. Scientists have noticed that food-body production decline
s precipitously when the brown ants }{\i\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 (Pheidoles) }{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 are removed, and it commences again when the ants are restored}{
\i\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 .}{\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 70}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\qj \li0\ri0\sb360\sa120\sl480\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid15409917 \b\f8\fs22\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs26\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
Mutual Assistance
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
What the piper plant does is not a one-sided sacrifice because, during this mutual living process, the ant also produces nutritional material for its host. 
\par When the ant lump in the trunk of the plant decays, it is taken inside the inner soft tissue of the plant as hydrous ammonia. This fluid is very beneficial for the plant. It increases its efficiency. As an addition, the brea
thing ant colony members increase the carbon dioxide concentration of the plant and ensure its being healthier. 
\par Some research has been done to understand if piper ants provide food for their plants and it has been proven that food-seeking Pheidole ants ha
ve brought in certain particles like spores, weed pieces and moth scales. Ants keep these foods that they carry in in small sacks in which they keep larvae, and the plant takes in the required minerals from these foods. 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\qj \fi142\li0\ri0\sb360\sa120\sl480\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid2436030 \b\f8\fs22\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs26\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
Strategy Expert, Pheidole
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\i\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 Pheidole}{
\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949  ants are quite peaceful. They move slowly. They neither attack, nor bite. Yet these ants use a shrewd strategy to protect themselves and their hosts, the }{
\i\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 Piper}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949  plants. 
\par Su
ch ants perform their service by removing the eggs and early developmental stages of the herbivores instead of facing down the adults. They patrol new leaves of the plant, which are the most susceptible to insect damage. Then, in an experiment, termite eg
gs were placed on }{\i\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 Piper}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
 bushes, the ants discovered more than 75 percent and dropped them off the plants within an hour. Pheidole chew through or push aside alien vines from their host plants, and also bring nutrients to the plant cavities as part of their nest material. }{
\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 71}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\qj \fi142\li0\ri0\sb360\sa120\sl480\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid2436030 \b\f8\fs22\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs26\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
Invader Aphid
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
Another creature who harms the piper is the invader wheat aphid (}{\i\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 Ambates melanobs}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
). The wheat aphid attacks the majority of plants without ants and kills them by piercing the trunk of the plant through to the inside. But the
se micro invaders cannot be very successful if the plant has ant guards. Ants attack the defenceless soft built wheat aphid larvae as soon as they start tunnelling into the inner part of the trunk. Strategist ants who defend the plant, they live on agains
t all kinds of invasions and also protect the ecological balance with this feature of theirs. 
\par The plant and ants co-existing in such harmony cannot be explained by coincidences. The picture we build up from the information given right throughout this entir
e chapter shows us species that are different from each other but who have been created for full cooperation.
\par At the beginning of this chapter, we have given a similar example of such harmony: The relationship between a key and the lock it opened. There wa
s a single explanation for the harmony between these two separate objects. The lock and the key were both made by the same master, that is, they were consciously designed. In the examples of cooperation we meet in nature, the same logic applies. The ant a
n
d the plant cooperate because they are the products of conscious design. Neither is the ant dominant over the plant, nor is the reverse true. Incapable of forming ideas, they are both simply acting under the inspiration of their Creator, and thus are able
 to maintain a reciprocity that allows them to pursue their lives on earth. 
\par The task for people, then, is to see this conscious creation and recognize its owner. Yet, many do not think about this, nor do they care. The following verses state in the best wa
y possible this perfect creation by Allah and the blindness of people towards it:}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782 
\par }{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid2436030\charrsid9585949 
\par }\pard\plain \s17\qj \li227\ri113\sb113\sa113\sl-280\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin113\lin227\itap0 \b\f8\fs18\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9502810 
Mankind! An example has been made, so listen to it carefully. Those whom you call besides Allah are not even able to create a single fly, even if they were to join together 
to do it. And if a fly steals something from them, they cannot get it back. How feeble are both the seeker and the sought! They do not measure Allah with His true measure. Allah is All-Strong, Almighty.(Surat al-Hajj, 73-74)
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qc \fi284\li0\ri0\sb480\sa120\sl600\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid15409917 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
\page }{\b\f0\fs36\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 DEFENCE AND WAR TACTICS
\par }\pard \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 In the
 previous chapters we have seen that the social order of ants is highly advanced. These hardworking, productive and sacrificing beings have yet another feature: They defend themselves very successfully against enemies and they use very interesting techniq
ues to fight for the survival of the colony. 
\par The small size of the ant at first gives the impression that they are defenceless. One cannot even imagine that these creatures, which can be crushed easily by stepping on them, can achieve tasks that seem far b
eyond their capacities. Yet, Allah within the unique ecological order He has created on earth has designated their place and has equipped them with the necessary defence mechanisms. 
\par By Allah's inspiration ants use seemingly incredible tactics and strategi
es to defend their colonies and to protect themselves against the enemies that they meet during the search for food. While developing hunting strategies, they fight not to become a prey to others. One battle of this type is the one between the ant colonie
s. 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\sb360\sa120\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5133142 \b\f8\fs22\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs26\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
War Between Colonies
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
One of the most important reasons for inter-colonial wars is the difficulty in sharing food resources. In such wars, the ant species that first finds the food source usually wins. This is because the discovering ants surround the fo
od, thus preventing others from getting at pieces of the food. They also leave their odors around, so that members of the following colony cannot show the way by odor trails. 
\par While some of the workers that first reach the food source maintain the blockade
 operation, another group does not join the war immediately, preferring to return home, and leaving odor trails. When they arrive home, they warn their nestmates by moving their bodies back and forth, and touching the antennae of the other ants with their
 own antennae. With this smart tactic, reinforcements are gathered for the fighting workers. 
\par Apart from ordinary sieges during the day, the ants become so aggressive during a famine that they may destroy each other completely. One colony may destroy another completely within 10-14 days. 
\par Another cause of war is one colony entering the territory of another. Ants mark their territories with a pheromone. When another colony comes to the area, it notices this pheromone and normally does not settle here. But if 
it does, this will be a cause of war. 
\par In such situations, for instance, weaver ants run to the nearest leaf while leaving a secretion behind. When they find their nestmates, they tell them about the fight by their movements. Their mates start moving upon 
this invitation and travel towards the war zone following the workers. In half an hour, more than one hundred ants reach the arena. 
\par In short, ant colonies lead a sophisticated existence with their natural boundaries, security and information systems again
st danger and armies that are strong enough to defend the whole colony. To found such a system and to have the colony members adopt the system, an intelligent and conscious will and education are needed. Yet, there is no apparent planner and no apparent e
d
ucation. The system has been designed by an invisible will and has been bestowed upon all ants when they first arrive on earth. In other words, Allah Who has created the ants has chosen a complex defence system for them and has inspired in the ants the pr
ogram needed for performance of this system. 
\par Now let us see the details of this system, which is an open system of creation. 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\sb360\sa120\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5133142 \b\f8\fs22\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs26\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
Defence Tactics
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
In wars among different colonies, there are certain tactics resorted to by ants. They walk about with legs stretch
ed out in a stiltlike posture while lifting their heads and abdomens and occasionally inflating their abdomens to a slight degree. The total effect is to make each ant appear larger than it really is.}{
\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 72}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
\par Another defence tactic they use is "pacifying the ene
my". An ant species (S. Invoila) gives out a venom during a fight by vibrating its belly and opening up its mandible slowly. Its enemies, who try to protect themselves from the venom open their mandibles and drop some sugar water onto the open mandible of
 the venomous ant. The reason is that the venomous ant's aggression decreases when it has access to food. In short, the object is to draw the attention of the other side somewhere else and pacify it. 
\par Tactics, of course, are not limited to these. The ants use many more sophisticated techniques in the war zones with the physical features they have and the intelligence that has been inspired in them. 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\sb360\sa120\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5133142 \b\f8\fs22\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs26\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
Acid Producing Ants}{\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
Another very important defence technique of ants is their producing in the venom sacs in t
heir bodies venom or formic acid as required. They use the venom they produce in a very successful way against their enemies. They can even have an effect on human beings with their venom. When they sting, they cause allergy shocks in certain people. Form
ic acid is, too, used effectively in chasing away the enemy. 
\par If we accept evolution, we then have to admit that primitive ants did not start out with a poisoning system in their bodies, it having been formed somehow later on through the process of evolutio
n. Yet this is a hypothesis against logic because, for the poisoning system to work, both the venom itself and the organ to keep it in have to be formed. It is necessary for this organ to have an insulated structure to prevent the dispersal of the venom t
o
 other parts of the body. Furthermore, an insulated pipe that extends from this organ to the mouth of the ant must exist. But this is not all. A muscle system or a mechanical arrangement has to exist which will allow this venom to be spurted on to the ene
my (In fact, a separate gland is needed also to "lubricate" that area for the rotation of the abdominal section from which the venom is squirted ). 
\par These organs could not have developed gradually through the process of evolution because, if even one piece 
were lacking, this would render the system unworkable and cause the ant's death. Therefore there is just one explanation: The "chemical defence system" in question must have been in place from the moment the ants came into existence. This in turn proves t
hat a conscious design also exists and its other name is "Creation". 
\par Another question to which evolutionists cannot find the answer is how \endash  apart from their using this venom without any harm coming to themselves - they have learned to produce such a poiso
n in their bodies (in venom sacks). In fact, the answer is very clear and obvious: Like all creatures in the universe, these ants with their perfect systems have been created all at the one time. The One Who has created the venom production centre in thei
r bodies and Who has inspired them to use it in the most logical manner is Allah, the Creator of the worlds. 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\sb360\sa120\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5133142 \b\f8\fs22\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs26\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
\page Ants Who Can Count
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
How is a simple insect able to assess the strength of the enemy? Interestingly enough, this is realized by the mathematical knowledge of the ant. 
\par There are several ways the ant workers might indirectly assess the enemy strength. One of them is that they can "count heads" while shifting from one combatant to another. If their nestmates outnumber the enemy \endash  say three to one \endash  they
 will be subjectively aware of the imbalance in their favor and more inclined to press forward. If the reverse, they will retreat. A second method is to poll the enemy. If a high percentage of the alien workers encountered are majors, the other colony is 
probably large, because majors are produced in high numbers only when colonies approach maturity.}{\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 73}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\sb360\sa120\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5133142 \b\f8\fs22\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs26\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
Walking Bombs}{\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
The ultimate sacrifice in public service is to destroy enemies by committing suicide in defense of the colony. Many kinds of ants are prepared to assume this kamikaze role in one way or another, but none more dramatically than workers of a species of }{
\i\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 Camponotus}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949  of the saundersi group living in the rain forests of Malaysia. 
\par Discovered in 1970 by two entomologists, these ants are anatomically and 
behaviorally programmed to be walking bombs. Two huge glands, filled with toxic secretions, run from the bases of the mandibles all the way to the posterior tip of the body. When the ants are pressed hard during combat, either by enemy ants or by an attac
king predator, they contract their abdominal muscles violently, bursting open the body wall and spraying the secretions onto the foe.}{\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 74}{
\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
\par Such a serious sacrifice by the ants cannot, of course, be explained by either natural selection or by the "evolutionist 
socialization process". As emphasized many times before, the creature which carries out this very important sacrifice is not a man of a certain intelligence, education, sense and conscience, but an ant. Even if we think that ants may have gone through som
e physical change \endash  there are ant fossils nevertheless that have remained unchanged for 80 million years \endash 
 it is quite obvious that physical changes alone would not equip it with such features. No mutation experienced by a living being can cause its sudden transformation into a thinking, judging, feeling and sensing individual. 
\par Even if we assumed that there had been an ant one day who decided to sacrifice itself to put up such a defence, it would of course be impossible for it to load this idea into its genes and transmit it to other ants. 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\sb360\sa120\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5133142 \b\f8\fs22\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs26\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
Slavemaker Ants}{\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 The relationship between (}{
\i\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 Formica Subintegra}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 ), the parasitic ant and its slave (}{
\i\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 Formica Subserica}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
) is interesting because it indicates the effect of chemical signals on the social lives of ants. "Slavery" is one of the intelligent war tactics of ants and maybe the most interesting one.}{
\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 75}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949  
\par Sometimes, if the soldiers of a colony realize that they can easily crush another colony, they may start hunting for slaves. They invade the nest of the other colony, kill the queen and take as loot the nectar-filled "honey pots" \endash 
 those ants that fill the
ir bodies with nectar. The most important point is their stealing the larvae of the queen. These larvae later on turn into young ants which will become "slave ants." They will look after the growing children of the colony queen and will search for and sto
re food for the dominant colony. 
\par When parasite ants attack another ant colony, the reason that the soldiers of the other colony cannot prevent the theft of their eggs and cocoons is a type of pheromone given out by the parasite ants. 
This pheromone is similar to a warning substance that exists in that colony and when it is secreted in large quantity by parasite ants, it results in the ants' running away instead of protecting their colonies. 
\par As we know, there is a different pheromone s
ecreted by each ant species. These pheromones are used for the designation of boundaries, the obtaining of information on the location and size of the enemy, as an attack command during war and as an alarm system. 
\par Here there is a very interesting point. P
arasite ants know the panic alarm of the enemy ant colony. They simulate this alarm and use it for a certain purpose. As a result, the enemy colony loses its present discipline because of the mimicry pheromone secreted by the parasite ant, and runs away i
n
 panic without resorting to its defence system. That is, parasite ants cause the collapse of the enemy defence system by using very smart tactics. A masterfully prepared war strategy has come into operation. Furthermore, parasite ants have had all the che
mical production and information infrastructure necessary for the implementation of this strategy since birth \endash  since the time of their creation. 
\par Some ant species lead their lives by having their slaves do everything for them. The red Amazon ant (}{\i\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 Polyergus}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
) is an example. All Amazon ants are soldiers. They have large sharp mandibles made for war. They can neither gather food nor look after babies. These ants attack the nests of certain small-sized black ant species and steal their cocoons and larvae. Ants 
e
merging from cocoons are carried home to take on the jobs of the Amazon ants and stay with the Amazon colony, even if their own nests are nearby. In fact, when Amazon ants move to their winter nests, most of the transport is ordinarily conducted by their 
slaves, thus they are able to emigrate very swiftly.}{\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 76}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949  
\par Ants can defend themselves against even very large living beings due to their ability to leave traces. A good example of this is the ant's struggle with the dragon fly. Ants who spot the dragon fly gat
her together thanks to their tracing systems, then they attack and kill it. In another example, they are able by the same method to beat a caterpillar that attacks another member of the colony even if it is much larger in size than themselves. 
\par It may seem
 normal for one living being to attack another or to fight with it for the purpose of defending its life, or for food. However, if a creature is acting together with others in its species while fighting the enemy, and if they communicate war tactics to ea
ch other, then we must inevitably focus on this subject. 
\par To decide upon tactics, to fight accordingly with a certain order and discipline, and to use a communication system to protect such order and discipline, are all acts that need intelligence, planning
 and judgement. For instance, today's war strategies have been determined on the basis of the life-long experience of human beings. Army officers go through training in academies to learn such tactics. They also need specifically developed communication s
ystems for the implementation of their strategies. 
\par However, the soldiers that we talked about above, who determine the discipline and attack tactics with chemical communication systems, who attack the enemy together and who, if necessary, sacrifice themsel
ves at times for other individuals of the army have not had any training and do not have any accumulation of information. These beings we are talking about are ants that are only a few milimetres long and do not have the ability to think. 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\sb360\sa120\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5133142 \b\f8\fs22\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs26\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
\page Masters Of Camouflage
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 The secret of the ant species }{
\i\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 "Basiceros"}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
 was not solved until recently. Researchers had come across these only once and had never found any ant similar to them again. Therefore, they were thought to be a very rare species. 
\par However, a researcher solved the secret of these ants in 1985. He found out that they are not a species that is rarely found at all. The researcher, named La Selva, who solved this secret, described the }{
\i\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 Basiceros }{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 ants as master illusionists, because they were able to become "invisible" whenever they wanted. 
\par What was it that made them invisible? 
\par The }{\i\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 Basiceros }{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
species, unlike other ant species, are covered with two layers of hair with splintered ends. When they walk on the ground, all kinds of dust, earth and bits of straws, etc.,
 stick on these hairs. Another difference between these and other ants is that they do not clean the dirt off their bodies very often. Therefore, as shown in the pictures, they display total harmony with the environment they are in. When looked at from ou
t
side, it is almost impossible to locate them. They only become a little visible when they start walking. Yet, even in this case, they take precautions to protect themselves from birds, lizards and even the human eye. They are the sluggish ants in the worl
d and may be observed to stand perfectly still for minutes at a time when they are disturbed.}{\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 77}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
\par The camouflage technique applied by this ant species is very striking, because it is impossible for an ant to have developed a defence system by determining all 
its physiological characteristics by itself. All these features (body covered with hair, not cleaning often unlike other ants and moving very slowly) must have been defined beforehand so that the ant came into this world already equipped with the characte
ristics discussed. 
\par As a result, again, we are facing a great truth. This ant species has also been created by Allah with all its features designated beforehand, thus showing us His attribute of Creator. 
\par }\pard \s15\qc \fi284\li0\ri0\sb360\sa120\sl480\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid15409917 {\b\f0\fs36\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 \page RESERVING THE RACE
\par }\pard \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 A large portion of an ant colony
 is made up of female ants. Male ants have a rather shorter life span. Their only task is to mate when they mature with a young queen. Male ants die a short while after they mate. All worker ants are female. In short, all ant communities are, in fact, a w
orld of mothers and daughters. 
\par  Ants are a harmonious society regardless of their number. In ant colonies, it is possible to see every stage in the life of a society. The purpose in life for ants, who are bound to their colonies with great sacrifice is not
 individual. They are, all together, like a single body and their purpose is to keep that body alive. They do not think twice before electing death, if it is for the survival of the colony. The best example of this is what happens to the male ants after t
he nuptial flight. 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\sb360\sa120\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5133142 \b\f8\fs22\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs26\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
Dying for Survival of the Race
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
The mating of ants looks almost like a ceremony. Most ants mate in the air. The males come earlier and wait for the young queen. When a female lands on the ground (the female also has wings before mating), 
5-6 male ants start racing around the queen. When the female has obtained enough sperms, it sends out a certain vibration. The male understands this signal as meaning that the female is ready to detach. A short while after mating, the male ant dies.}{
\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 78}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
\par This
 type of sacrifice is in fact very hard to explain. The male ant taking the nuptial flight which will end in its death for the survival of its race is a type of behaviour that cannot be explained by the theory of evolution because, according to the fundam
ental logic of evolution, each living being only worries about the continuation of its own life. Yet, male ants have been fertilizing female ants for millions of years, knowing that at the end, death is inevitable. 
\par The only truth that can explain this sacr
ifice is that the male ant acts under the inspiration of its Creator. Otherwise, it is impossible that a creature, which is alleged to go through the natural selection process, should preserve such sacrificial behaviour for millions of years. Judging by t
h
e basic principles of the theory of evolution, male ants would have to escape from this "death flight" one way or another, and this would mean the end of the ant species. Yet, currently, thousands of ant species still keep on living on earth with their co
lonies numbering hundreds of thousands. Not a single male ant has ever run away from this flight which means "the end" for it. 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\sb360\sa120\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5133142 \b\f8\fs22\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs26\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
After the Nuptial Flight}{\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949  
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
After mating, the female ant looks for a suitable nest, and when she finds one, she enters it and promp
tly tears off her wings. Later on, she bars the entrance and stays without food and alone for several weeks. Then she lays her eggs. (During this time, she feeds on her wings). She feeds the larvae coming out first with her own saliva. This long-lasting a
nd tough effort is another example of sacrifice, but in the remaining portion of her life, the queen will be fed by her colony. 
\par Due to limited food, the first swarm is small. These are the first workers of the colony and take care of the following swarms c
ontinuing to make sacrifices in the same way. The new generation of ants that grows up under their exceptional care become larger, because they have better nutrition. 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\sb360\sa120\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5133142 \b\f8\fs22\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs26\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
First Founders of Sperm Bank}{\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
As we mentioned before, the lives of male ants are not very long. They die anything from a few hours to a couple of days after the nuptial flight. Yet, it is very interesting that each male who has taken the nuptial flight, risking death, has left sperms 
for its offspring to be born years after it dies. Well, how are these sperms preserved alive and how are they able to produce new ants by fertilizing the eggs? Can the ants have developed a superior technology and formed a sperm bank? 
\par Yes, each queen ant h
as a sperm bank in her body. After receiving the ejaculate from the male, the queen stores it in an oval bag located near the tip of her abdomen. In this organ, called the spermatheca, the individual sperm are physiologically inactivated, and they can rem
ain in suspended animation for years. When at last the queen lets them back out into her reproductive tract, either one at a time or in small groups, they become agile again and ready to fertilize the egg passing down the tract from the ovaries.}{
\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 79}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949  This mean
s that the sperm bank which has come into use over the last 25 years through high technology, has been used by the ants since time immemorial. 
\par This mechanism of which, until 50 years ago, human beings had not the slightest inkling, has been used by ants f
or millions of years. Since the ants cannot go through stages man has gone through by setting up laboratories and having this mechanism placed in their bodies, they must have had this mechanism since the very beginning. If allegations are made to the cont
rary, many questions similar to the ones below shall have to be answered. 
\par 1. When the ants came into existence for the first time, did not the males die after the nuptial flight? If they did not, then why are they dying now? Did they think that it was more
 appropriate to be destroyed after the death flight as part of the survival of the fittest process?
\par 2. Since male ants die right after the nuptial flight, would not the ant species have been extinct long time ago had it not been for the formation of the sperm storage required for the survival of their species? 
\par 3. If the sperm bank has existed since they first came into existence, then who has equipped their bodies with this mechanism? 
\par These are just a few of the questions that must be answered by those wh
o do not accept the supreme creation by the Creator. Thousands more questions may be formulated just on the subject of the survival of the ant species and each one of these questions points to creation by design and renders evolutionist claims impossible.
 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\sb360\sa120\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5133142 \b\f8\fs22\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs26\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
Sacrifice of Workers}{\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
The eggs that the queen ant lays and immature young ants both live in the child care chambers of the nest. If the temperature and humidity become such that they may harm the young, then worker ants carry the eggs and the young ants to
 a more suitable environment. They keep the eggs close to the surface in the daytime to benefit from the heat and take them to deeper chambers at night or on rainy days. 
\par This means that the workers try to protect the eggs and young ants with great care an
d try to keep them comfortable. Some of them take the larvae around the nest on a hot day to cool them down and some of them cover the walls of the nest with discarded cocoons to prevent humidity and some of them seek food. Every single one of these actio
ns shows that ants act out of very kind consideration. One ant will take the larvae around the nest to cool them, while another ant will insulate the wall of the nest by cocoons to adjust the temperature \endash 
 a very modern insulation technique. Yet, it must no
t be forgotten that this being which we regard as having made a kind gesture, does not have any thinking capacity. Regardless of how advanced its technology may become, science will never be able to find the cause of this sacrifice displayed by a tiny bug
. Furthermore, this sacrifice is in total contradiction of the most fundamental principles of the theory of evolution. 
\par All these examples show that these living beings also act under Allah's inspiration and that they obey Him. This secret is explained in the Qur'an as follows:
\par }\pard\plain \s17\qj \li227\ri113\sb113\sa113\sl-280\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin113\lin227\itap0 \b\f8\fs18\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9502810 
Everything in the heavens and every creature on the earth prostrates to Allah, as do the angels. They are not puffed up with pride. They fear their Lord above them and do everything they are ordered to do. (Surat an-Nahl, 49-50)
\par }\pard\plain \s19\qj \li0\ri0\sb360\sa120\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5133142 \b\f8\fs22\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs26\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 Treas
ure of Ants}{\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\expnd-1\expndtw-5\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
All the activities of ant colonies centre on the queen and her eggs. The ants hold their queens, who ensure the reproduction of their colonies, in high regard. All their needs are met by worker ants. The most important thing a worker ant does i
s to serve the queen and ensure her survival and her babies. 
\par Ant eggs are the most valuable treasure of the colony. The first thing the ants do when they sense any danger to their larvae is to take the babies to a secure place. Yet, since baby ants die wi
thin a couple of hours of coming into contact with the dry air outside, worker ants try to keep the air humid in the sections where the larvae are. There are various techniques they have developed for this. First of all, they build their nests in such a w
a
y as to keep the moisture of the air and soil within tolerable limits. In addition, ants who assume the task of being caretakers of the babies, regularly shift brood up and down through the dense system of chambers. They try to find the most suitable envi
r
onment for them. Furthermore, the needs of brood vary according to age. For instance, while eggs and larvae need a humid environment, the pupae have to be in a strictly dry medium. Workers keep on working for 24 hours without rest to complete these tasks.
}{\fs22\expnd-1\expndtw-5\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 80}{\fs22\expnd-1\expndtw-5\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
\par The worker ants in t
he colony have dedicated themselves to raising the eggs of their constantly laying queen instead of laying eggs themselves. They take many risks on this score, because the humid medium required for eggs and larvae is ideal for the growth of bacteria and f
ungi that are potential health hazards for the ants. 
\par Then, how are the workers protected in such an unhealthy environment? Allah, Who has created ants with their magnificent systems, has given them another defence technique. The metapleural glands in the t
horax of adult ants continuously secrete substances that kill bacteria and fungi. Therefore, ant colonies are rarely struck by bacterial or fungal infections.}{\fs22\expnd-1\expndtw-5\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 81}{
\fs22\expnd-1\expndtw-5\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\sb360\sa120\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\f8\fs22\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs26\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid15409917 
\par }\pard \s19\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\sb360\sa120\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5133142 {\fs26\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 Can Darwinism Explain Sacrifice?}{
\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\expnd-1\expndtw-5\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
Charles Darwin, who is the originator of the theory of evolut
ion, has suggested that the basic motivation of the process of evolution was that of staying alive. In Darwin's view, when individuals of a species acquire traits that increase their chances for survival, those individuals have an advantage; due to this a
dvantage, they survive and produce relatively more living offspring, thus eventually spreading the trait throughout their species. Evolution, therefore, would be expected to favor self-preservation, not self-sacrifice.}{
\fs22\expnd-1\expndtw-5\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 82}{\fs22\expnd-1\expndtw-5\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949  
\par Yet, Darwin's theory of natural sel
ection was given a shattering blow by the discovery of so many incredible examples of self-sacrifice shown by ants. It was very difficult for proponents of the theory of evolution to produce an explanation of such characteristics, some of which were found
 while Darwin was still alive. In fact, Darwin himself stated in his book, called The Origin of Species:
\par }\pard\plain \s18\qj \li227\ri0\sb113\sa113\sl-280\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin227\itap0 \f8\fs18\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\expnd-1\expndtw-5\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
Many instincts are so wonderful that their development will probably appear to the reader a difficulty sufficient to overthrow my whole theory. I may he
re premise that I have nothing to do with the origin of the mental powers, any more than I have with that of life itself. }{\fs22\expnd-1\expndtw-5\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 83}{
\fs22\expnd-1\expndtw-5\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\expnd-1\expndtw-5\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
After such an open confession, the hypothesis he set forth in order to save his theory is beset by even greater complications. Acco
rding to the explanation Darwin brought to this conflicting situation, natural selection was realized not at the level of individual, but at the group level within certain groups. 
\par However, this could not go any further than a claim impossible to prove, be
cause it was just an estimate which was set forth for the sake of saving the theory, which did not depend on any solid findings or observations. Evolutionists who came after Darwin could never explain the examples of sacrifice in animals. 
\par }\pard \s15\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\keep\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs22\expnd-1\expndtw-5\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 It is impossible
 to explain the examples of sacrifice and generosity experienced among ants, termites, bees and other social insects by any technique offered by the theory of evolution. There is only a single explanation for a living being to put its own security and com
f
ort at risk in order to work on providing security and comfort for members of the group it lives in: the social order of the group has been determined by a conscious designer and this designer has assigned different tasks for each member of the group. The
 
members of the group abide by this task distribution and if necessary, sacrifice themselves. What is important is the survival of the order of the group, and the sacrifice needed for it may be achieved, not by the will of insects lacking any consciousness
 and judgement, but by the will that directs them. 
\par }\pard \s15\qc \fi284\li0\ri0\sb480\sa120\sl480\slmult1\keep\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5133142 {\fs22\expnd-1\expndtw-5\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 \page }{
\b\fs36\expnd-1\expndtw-5\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 FEEDING AND HUNTING
\par }\pard \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
Each living being uses different methods to satisfy its needs for food. In this chapter, you are going to read about the tactics used by ants when looking for food, about their communi
cations and the competition among them to get to the food. All the tactics tried by such a small creature to obtain its food shows, as in previous chapters, the greatness, magnificence and power of Allah, the "Supreme Possessor of Intelligence" Who has cr
eated them. 
\par How is a "family" with a population in hundreds of thousands fed? One of the most important things needed for survival of the colony is resolving of the food problem, and each ant in the colony has its share of this responsibility. 
\par As they do 
in other aspects of their lives, the ants carry out systematic work in solving the nutrition problem. Old worker ants are sent out as foragers to survey the land around the nest to find food resources for the colony which has a population of hundreds of t
h
ousands (sometimes millions). When forager ants find a food source, they gather their nestmates around the food in numbers which depend on the size and richness of the source. Ants solve the food problem by a very strong communication network and their ge
nerosity, which never says "Only me". 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\sb360\sa120\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5133142 \b\f8\fs22\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs26\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
Ants That Feed Each Other
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
Ants of different species try not to get in each other's way while looking for food. Each one determines a path for itself to get to the food source. If ants go into another colony's territory
 by mistake, this becomes a declaration of war. In such a situation, forager ants come back to the nest right away and close the nest entrance and all colony members come together to defend their colonies against danger. 
\par Then, how do the ants feed during this fight, when they have no opportunity to bring in food?
\par At this point, a feature of the ants that distinguishes them from other living beings emerges. During this period when they cannot search for food, all colony members feed on the food stored in the crops of young workers. 
\par In fact, this sharing technique is one they use all their lives, and not only at special times. Ants not only transport the liquid droplets, but they feed each other mouth to mouth. Once a forager enters the nest laden with liqui
d food, she stands still for a period of time, swinging its head from side to side while waiting for a nestmate to approach; or else it moves directly toward nestmates and presents them with the food droplet held between her widely opened mandibles.}{
\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 84}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949  This
 liquid food exchange, done by regurgitating which provides quick distribution of the food to the colony is, in fact, quite an impressive example of sharing. Also husks and seeds brought to the nest are consumed as well by all of the ants together. Thus, 
the food requirement of the whole colony is satisfied without any problems. 
\par This system is one that makes it necessary to admit of the existence of a supreme designer. It is a reality that a chain of random events cannot form such a storage system so compl
ex and requiring great sacrifice. What is more, each ant comes to this world knowing this system. That is, the necessity to share its food has been ingrained in it before its birth and not after. Not only has this sense of sacrifice been inspired in it, b
u
t because a special mechanism is needed to present the food it has saved in its crop, its body structure has been designed to make this sharing possible. This sharing event realized among ant colonies once again renders the word "chance" insufficient or e
v
en meaningless, due to the sense of self-sacrifice being much in evidence. As we have emphasized many times before, the theory of evolution assumes the existence of a full-fledged competition and life struggle among all living things. Therefore, examples 
o
f self-sacrifice among ant species are acts most difficult to explain. Ants living under a feeding system based on sharing are proof that they do not act in the way suggested by the theory of evolution. They are not engaging in a random "fight for surviva
l" but are rather performing the duties given to them (according to the Qur'an "revealed to them") and thus they are able to transform their colonies with hundreds of thousands or even millions of members into a true civilization. 
\par In the Qur'an, in surat an-Nahl, Allah describes the "revelation" that makes it obligatory for the animals to perform certain tasks given to them by Him: 
\par }\pard\plain \s17\qj \li227\ri113\sb113\sa113\sl-280\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin113\lin227\itap0 \b\f8\fs18\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9502810 
And your Lord revealed to the bee: "Build dwellings in the mountains and the trees and also in the structures which men erect.
 Then eat from every kind of fruit and travel the paths of your Lord, which have been made easy for you to follow." From inside them comes a drink of varying colours, containing healing for mankind. There is certainly a sign in that for people who reflect
. (Surat an-Nahl, 68-69)
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
The Qur'an, of course, does not list the animals' special duties through Allah's inspiration one by one. The honey bee is just one example. Yet, when we look at the ant, we can see that this small being, which performs as perfect ta
sks as the honey bee, and which is at least as generous, social and loyal, acts under a similar revelation. 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\sb360\sa120\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5133142 \b\f8\fs22\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs26\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
Rational Techniques in Carrying Food}{\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
The discovery by approximately 8800 known ant species of the food sources they need, and their carrying them t
o their homes are done by different methods. In certain species, ants hunt on their own and carry the food individually. Yet in others, hunting is done as a group and they carry and defend their food together. 
\par If the food they find is in suitable dimensio
ns for them, ants usually carry it alone. If the food is too large for a single ant to carry or if it is in small piles, all within a particular area, they give out a poisonous hormone to prevent others from coming into the territory. Then they go to call
 other workers, large and small, to carry the food. 
\par The perfect division of labour governing the lives of ants is observed here also. Large ants tear up the food and defend it against strangers, while smaller ones take care of carrying the pieces home. A w
orker lifts the food with its mandible and keeps it in front of it while returning home. When there is a group, the substance they can carry becomes even larger. They lift the food by using one or two legs. At the same time, they bite the food, opening th
e
ir mandibles. Workers apply different techniques, depending on their positions and their directions. Those in front walk backwards, pulling the food. Those at the back walk forward, pushing it, and those at the sides give support. By this technique, it is
 
possible to carry weights many times greater than what a single ant can carry. In fact, it has been observed that ants acting in unison can carry a weight 5,000 times as heavy as that carried by a single worker. 100 ants can carry a large worm at ground l
evel, moving it 0.4 cm per second. 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\sb360\sa120\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5133142 \b\f8\fs22\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs26\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
\page Ants and Odor Trails}{\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
Communication by trails (following of odor trails) is a technique that is commonly used by ants. There are many interesting examples on the subject: 
\par An ant species living in American deserts secrete
s a special odor produced in its venom sac if it realizes that the dead bug it has found is too wide or heavy to carry or drag. Its nestmates far away detect the odor and start moving towards its source. When ants have gathered around the victim in suffic
ient numbers to carry it, they start carrying it towards the nest. 
\par When fire ant workers leave the nest in search of food, they may follow odor trails for a short while, but they eventually separate from each other and begin to explore singly. When a fire 
ant discovers a food source, it heads home at a slower pace. Her entire body is held closer to the ground. At frequent intervals, the sting is extruded, and its tip is drawn lightly over the ground surface, much as a pen is used to ink a thin line. Thus, 
it leaves a trail behind it that leads to the food source.}{\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 85}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\sb360\sa120\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5133142 \b\f8\fs22\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs26\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
Ants Who Serve As Compasses}{\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
Food-seeking ants carry out a task in a manner which is very hard to explain. They go to the food source following a wiggly path, but when they return home, it is via a
 short and straight line. Then, how is it that ants that can see only a few centimetres ahead of themselves, march in such a straight line? 
\par To find an answer to this question, a researcher called Richard Feynman placed a clump of sugar at one end of the b
athtub, then waited for an ant to come and find it. As this pioneer ant returned home with news of the feast, Feynman followed the wiggly path it followed. He then traced the path of each successive ant to follow the trail. The successive ants, he found, 
did not stick exactly to the trail; they did better, cutting corners until the trail became a straight line. 
\par Later on, inspired by Feynman, a computer scientist, Alfred Bruckstein, proved mathematically that successive followers really do make a wiggly lin
e straight. The conclusion he arrived at was the same: after a certain number of ants, the path length shrinks to some minimum value: to the shortest possible distance between two points - namely, a straight line.}{
\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 86}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
\par What we talked about above is of course,
 something which would require great skill on the part of a human being because he would certainly need to use a compass, a watch and at times much more complex instruments for any distance relative to his own dimensions and would have to have a perfect k
n
owledge of mathematics. In contrast to this, the guide an ant has in exploring on its own is the sun, while its compass is the position of branches and other natural landmarks. Later on, ants remember their shapes and can thus find the shortest route to t
heir nests although they have never had any prior knowledge of it. 
\par This is very easy to say but very hard to explain! How can these tiny living beings do such calculations when they have neither a brain nor the capacity to think and judge? 
\par Imagine that yo
u leave a man in an unfamiliar forest. Even if he knows the direction to go, he will have a hard time finding his way and will probably get lost. In the meantime, it will be necessary for him to look around carefully and think about which would be the bes
t way to go. Yet, ants act as if they are encoded on the matter of path finding. In the evening, they can easily find and follow the road they took to find the food in the morning, even if all the conditions have changed. 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\sb360\sa120\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5133142 \b\f8\fs22\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs26\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
\page The Perfect Hunting Technique}{\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 Cer
tain ant species use their teeth to eat spider eggs, caterpillars, insects and termites. Many ants (for example }{\i\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 Dacetine}{
\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 ) specialize in non-winged insects. These insects live in groups i
n the ground and in decayed leaves. The bugs have extensions under their bodies in the form of folded forks. When they rock and get up, this organ throws them into the air and forward like a miniature kangaroo. }{
\i\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 Dacetine}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949  ants use their mandibles like an ani
mal-catching trap against this very effective manoeuvre. When the food-seeking ant receives the odor of an insect with its antennae, it lies in wait, opening its mandibles 180 degrees. It locks the small teeth in its mandible by pressing onto its upper pa
l
ate. It inspects its surroundings by moving its antennae forward. Then the ant approaches the insect slowly. When its antennae touch it, the little insect is at a distance where its apical teeth can reach it. When the ant lowers its palate, the mandible s
uddenly snaps shut and the insect is squeezed between the teeth as if impaled.}{\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 87}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949  
\par The above-mentioned ants never miss their prey, because they have mandibles with the fastest reflex in the world. 
\par Our speed of blinking the eye is very slow compared to the biting speed of the trapper ant. While the opening and closing of the eyelid takes about one third of a second, the mandibles of these ants }{
\i\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 (Odontomachus bawi)}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949  work almost 100 times faster. The fastest hit observed took in 0.33 milliseconds.}{
\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 88}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
\par The mandibula
r structures of trapper ants are approximately 1.8 milimetre long. In the interior sections, there is a sac full of air attached to the trachea. This system ensures exceptionally fast movement of the teeth. The mandibles act as a miniature mouse trap. Whe
n hunting, the mandible is fully opened and ready to close any time. The biting speed slows down near the end of the biting process. To prevent the teeth hitting each other very hard, the mandible movement is slowed down by the special muscle system.}{
\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 89}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
\par }\pard \s15\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 It i
s impossible for such a hunting mechanism to have developed through evolution. That is, without conscious design and at random. 
\par The only acceptable truth is that the power who has created the ants with all their miraculous characteristics and perfect life styles is Allah, Who is sovereign over all of nature and the universe. 
\par }\pard \s15\qc \fi284\li0\ri0\sb480\sa120\sl480\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5133142 {\fs22\cf6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 \page }{
\b\fs36\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 CONCLUSION}{\b\fs36\cf6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
\par }\pard \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
We have given you some examples of the effects of Allah's art of creation on a living species only a few centimetres long. It is correct to say "some examples" because the
re are hundreds more, relating to ants, which can be listed. However, each one of the listed examples is in itself a matter for profound reflection. 
\par It must not be forgotten that life forms exist all over the earth. The life bestowed by Allah on small ant
s, which have a complicated system and an extensive range of activities, has also been created for living beings in each square milimetre. Single-celled organisms, insects, wild animals and plants are all created with perfect programming, like the ants.

\par All these miracles of creation are things which human beings do not even think about during their daily lives, or they just look at them without comprehending them. 
\par With this book, we have tried to dispel the deep mist with which modern society covers the p
eople's eyes. Our goal is to present anew the proof of Allah's eternal existence to those who have forgotten Him because they have been too preoccupied all their lives with worldly matters, such as jobs, houses, and financial concerns. It is also our goal
 
to give to those who do think of Him, new material to reflect upon. Both these tasks are very important. And as a major step towards their fulfilment, we have analyzed in this text the miracles of creation, so that the One Who is the mastermind behind the
m may come to be known and appreciated. Allah explains the significance of this as follows in our only indicator of the true path, the Qur'an: 
\par }\pard\plain \s17\qj \li227\ri113\sb113\sa113\sl-280\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin113\lin227\itap0 \b\f8\fs18\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9502810 
And the earth- We have spread it out, and set thereon mountains standing firm, and produced therefrom every kind of beautiful growth (in pairs) - to be observed and commemorated by every devotee turning (to God). (Surah Qaf, 7-8)
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
Our goal is to have the readers think of the message of this book as a message "to be observed and commemorated". Therefore, rather than be
coming submerged in the troubles of a society which has turned its back on Allah and forgotten Him, the reader should ponder deeply upon the existence and power of Allah and should rearrange his life in accordance with this truth. 
\par Allah has created all the things He created to become acquainted with Him. Those who turn away from Him, despite this, deserve a great punishment. 
\par }\pard \s15\qc \fi284\li0\ri0\sb480\sa120\sl480\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5133142 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 \page }{
\b\fs36\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 THE EVOLUTION DECEIT
\par }\pard \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
The theory of evolution is a philosophy and a conception of the world that produces false hypotheses, assumpti
ons and imaginary scenarios in order to explain the existence and origin of life in terms of mere coincidences. The roots of this philosophy go back as far as antiquity and ancient Greece.
\par All atheist philosophies that deny creation, directly or indirectly embrace and defend the idea of evolution. The same condition today applies to all the ideologies and systems that are antagonistic to religion.
\par The evolutionary notion has been cloaked in a scientific disguise for the last century and a half in order to justify itself. Though put forward as a supposedly scientific theory during the mid-19th century, the theory, despite all the best efforts of its
 advocates, has not so far been verified by any scientific finding or experiment. Indeed, the "very science" on which the theory depends so greatly has demonstrated and continues to demonstrate repeatedly that the theory has no merit in reality.
\par Laboratory 
experiments and probabilistic calculations have definitely made it clear that the amino acids from which life arises cannot have been formed by chance. The cell, which supposedly emerged by chance under primitive and uncontrolled terrestrial conditions ac
c
ording to evolutionists, still cannot be synthesised even in the most sophisticated, high-tech laboratories of the 20th century. Not a single "transitional form", creatures which are supposed to show the gradual evolution of advanced organisms from more p
rimitive ones as neo-Darwinist theory claims, has ever been found anywhere in the world despite the most diligent and prolonged search in the fossil record.
\par }\pard\plain \s23\qj \fi340\li0\ri0\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\f8\fs22\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
Striving to gather evidence for evolution, evolutionists have unwittingly proven by their own hands that evolution cannot have happened at all!
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 The }{
\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid15409917\charrsid9585949 person,}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
 who originally put forward the theory of evolution, essentially in the form that it is defended today, was an amateur English biologist by the name of Charles Robert Darwin. Darwin first published his ideas in a book entitled }{
\i\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 The Origin of Species by Means of Natural Selection}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
 in 1859. Darwin claimed in his book that all living beings had a common ancestor and that they evolved from one another by means of natural selection. Those that best adapted to 
the habitat transferred their traits to subsequent generations, and by accumulating over great epochs, these advantageous qualities transformed individuals into totally different species from their ancestors. The human being was thus the most developed pr
oduct of the mechanism of natural selection. In short, the origin of one species was another species.
\par Darwin's fanciful ideas were seized upon and promoted by certain ideological and political circles and the theory became very popular. The main reason was 
that the level of knowledge of those days was not yet sufficient to reveal that Darwin's imaginary scenarios were false. When Darwin put forward his assumptions, the disciplines of genetics, microbiology, and biochemistry did not yet exist. If they had, D
a
rwin might easily have recognised that his theory was totally unscientific and thus would not have attempted to advance such meaningless claims: the information determining species already exists in the genes and it is impossible for natural selection to 
produce new species by altering genes.
\par While the echoes of Darwin's book reverberated, an Austrian botanist by the name of Gregor Mendel discovered the laws of inheritance in 1865. Although little known before the end of the century, Mendel's discovery gain
ed great importance in the early 1900s with the birth of the science of genetics. Some time later, the structures of genes and chromosomes were discovered. The discovery, in the 1950s, of the DNA molecule, which incorporates genetic information, threw the
 theory of evolution into a great crisis, because the origin of the immense amount of information in DNA could not possibly be explained by coincidental happenings.
\par Besides all these scientific developments, no transitional forms, which were supposed to show the gradual evolution of living organisms from primitive to advanced species, have ever been found despite years of search.
\par These developments ought to have resulted in Darwin's theory being banished to the dustbin of history. However, it was not, becaus
e certain circles insisted on revising, renewing, and elevating the theory to a scientific platform. These efforts gain meaning only if we realise that behind the theory lie ideological intentions rather than scientific concerns.
\par Nevertheless, some circles
 that believed in the necessity of upholding a theory that had reached an impasse soon set up a new model. The name of this new model was neo-Darwinism. According to this theory, species evolved as a result of mutations, minor changes in their genes, and 
t
he fittest ones survived through the mechanism of natural selection. When, however, it was proved that the mechanisms proposed by neo-Darwinism were invalid and minor changes were not sufficient for the formation of living beings, evolutionists went on to
 
look for new models. They came up with a new claim called "punctuated equilibrium" that rests on no rational or scientific grounds. This model held that living beings suddenly evolved into another species without any transitional forms. In other words, sp
e
cies with no evolutionary "ancestors" suddenly appeared. This was a way of describing creation, though evolutionists would be loath to admit this. They tried to cover it up with incomprehensible scenarios. For instance, they said that the first bird in hi
story could all of a sudden inexplicably have popped out of a reptile egg. The same theory also held that carnivorous land-dwelling animals could have turned into giant whales, having undergone a sudden and comprehensive transformation.
\par These claims, totall
y contradicting all the rules of genetics, biophysics, and biochemistry are as scientific as fairy-tales of frogs turning into princes! Nevertheless, being distressed by the crisis that the neo-Darwinist assertion was in, some evolutionist paleontologists
 embraced this theory, which has the distinction of being even more bizarre than neo-Darwinism itself.
\par The only purpose of this model was to provide an explanation for the gaps in the fossil record that the neo-Darwinist model could not explain. However, it
 is hardly rational to attempt to explain the gap in the fossil record of the evolution of birds with a claim that "a bird popped all of a sudden out of a reptile egg", because, by the evolutionists' own admission, the evolution of a species to another sp
e
cies requires a great and advantageous change in genetic information. However, no mutation whatsoever improves the genetic information or adds new information to it. Mutations only derange genetic information. Thus, the "gross mutations" imagined by the p
unctuated equilibrium model, would only cause "gross", that is "great", reductions and impairments in the genetic information.
\par The theory of punctuated equilibrium was obviously merely a product of the imagination. Despite this evident truth, the advocates 
of evolution did not hesitate to honour this theory. The fact that the model of evolution proposed by Darwin could not be proved by the fossil record forced them to do so. Darwin claimed that species underwent a gradual change, which necessitated the exis
tence of half-bird/half-reptile or half-fish/half-reptile freaks. However, not even one of these "transitional forms" was found despite the extensive studies of evolutionists and the hundreds of thousands of fossils that were unearthed.
\par Evolutionists seized
 upon the model of punctuated equilibrium with the hope of concealing this great fossil fiasco. As we have stated before, it was very evident that this theory is a fantasy, so it very soon consumed itself. The model of punctuated equilibrium was never put
 
forward as a consistent model, but rather used as an escape in cases that plainly did not fit the model of gradual evolution. Since evolutionists today realise that complex organs such as eyes, wings, lungs, brain and others explicitly refute the model of
 gradual evolution, in these particular points they are compelled to take shelter in the fantastic interpretations of the model of punctuated equilibrium.
\par }\pard\plain \s19\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\sb360\sa120\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5133142 \b\f8\fs22\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs26\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
Is there any Fossil Record to Verify the Theory of Evolution?
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
The theory of evolution argues that the evolution of a species into another species takes place gradually, step-by-step over millions of years. The logical inference drawn from such a claim is that monstrous living organisms called "transitional forms" sh
ould have lived during these periods of transformation. Since evolutionists allege that all living things evolved from each other step-by-step, the number and variety of these transitional forms should have been in the millions.
\par If such creatures had really
 lived, then we should see their remains everywhere. In fact, if this thesis is correct, the number of intermediate transitional forms should be even greater than the number of animal species alive today and their fossilised remains should be abundant all
 over the world.
\par Since Darwin, evolutionists have been searching for fossils and the result has been for them a crushing disappointment. Nowhere in the world \endash  neither on land nor in the depths of the sea \endash  has any intermediate transitional form between any
 two species ever been uncovered. 
\par Darwin himself was quite aware of the absence of such transitional forms. It was his greatest hope that they would be found in the future. Despite his hopefulness, he saw that the biggest stumbling block to his theory was
 the missing transitional forms. This is why, in his book }{\i\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 The Origin of Species}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 , he wrote:
\par }\pard\plain \s18\qj \li227\ri0\sb113\sa113\sl-280\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin227\itap0 \f8\fs18\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
Why, if species have descended from other species by fine gradations, do we not everywhere see innumerable transitional forms? Why is not all nature in confusion, instead of the species being, as we see them, well defined?\'85
 But, as by this theory innumerable transitional forms must have existed, why do we not find them embedded in countless numbers in the crust of the earth?\'85 But in the intermediate region, having int
ermediate conditions of life, why do we not now find closely-linking intermediate varieties? This difficulty for a long time quite confounded me.}{\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 90}{
\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
Darwin was right to be worried. The problem bothered other evolutionists as well. A famous British paleontologist, Derek V. Ager, admits this embarrassing fact:
\par }\pard\plain \s17\qj \li227\ri113\sb113\sa113\sl-280\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin113\lin227\itap0 \b\f8\fs18\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9502810 
The point emerges that if we examine the fossil record in detail, whether at the level of orders or of species, we find \endash  over and over again \endash  not gradual evolution, but the sudden explosion of one group at the expense of another.}{
\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 91}{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9502810 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
The gaps in the fossil record cannot be explained away by the wishful thinking that not enough fossils have yet been unearthed and that these missing fossils will one day be found. Another evolutionist paleontologist, T. Nevi
lle George, explains the reason:
\par }\pard\plain \s18\qj \li227\ri0\sb113\sa113\sl-280\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin227\itap0 \f8\fs18\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
There is no need to apologise any longer for the poverty of the fossil record. In some ways, it has become almost unmanageably rich and discovery is outpacing integration\'85 The fossil record nevertheless continues to be composed mainly of gaps.}{
\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 92}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\sb360\sa120\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5133142 \b\f8\fs22\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs26\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
\page Life Emerged on Earth Suddenly and in Complex Forms}{\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
When terrestrial strata and the fossil record are examined, it is seen that living organisms appeared simultaneously. The oldest stratum of the earth in which fossils of living cre
atures have been found is that of the "Cambrian", which has an estimated age of 530-520 million years.
\par Living creatures that are found in the strata belonging to the Cambrian period emerged in the fossil record all of a sudden without any pre-existing ance
stors. The vast mosaic of living organisms, made up of such great numbers of complex creatures, emerged so suddenly that this miraculous event is referred to as the "Cambrian Explosion" in scientific literature.
\par Most of the organisms found in this stratum 
have highly advanced organs like eyes, or systems seen in organisms with a highly advanced organisation such as gills, circulatory systems, and so on. There is no sign in the fossil record to indicate that these organisms had any ancestors. Richard Monest
arsky, the editor of }{\i\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 Earth Sciences}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949  magazine, states about the sudden emergence of living species:
\par }\pard\plain \s18\qj \li227\ri0\sb113\sa113\sl-280\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin227\itap0 \f8\fs18\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
A half-billion years ago the remarkably complex forms of animals that we see today suddenly appeared. This moment, right at the start of Earth's Cambrian Peri
od, some 550 million years ago, marks the evolutionary explosion that filled the seas with the world's first complex creatures. The large animal phyla of today were present already in the early Cambrian and they were as distinct from each other then as th
ey are today.}{\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 93}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
Not being able to find answers to the question of how earth came to overflow with thousands of different animal species, evolutionists posit an imaginary period of 20 million years before the Cambrian Period to explain how life originated an
d "the unknown happened". This period is called the "evolutionary gap". No evidence for it has ever been found and the concept is still conveniently nebulous and undefined even today.
\par In 1984, numerous complex invertebrates were unearthed in Chengjiang, set in the central Yunnan plateau in the high country of southwest China. Among them were trilobites, now extinct, but no less complex in structure than any modern invertebrate.
\par The Swedish evolutionist paleontologist, Stefan Bengston, explains the situation as follows:
\par }\pard\plain \s18\qj \li227\ri0\sb113\sa113\sl-280\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin227\itap0 \f8\fs18\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
If any event in life's history resembles man's creation myths, it is this sudden diversification of marine life when multicellular organisms took over as the dominant actors in ecology and evolution. Baffling (and embarrassing) to Darwin, this
 event still dazzles us.}{\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 94}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
The sudden appearance of these complex living beings with no predecessors is no less baffling (and embarrassing) for evolutionists today than it was for Darwin 135 years ago. In nearly a century and a half, they have advanced not
 one step beyond the point that stymied Darwin.
\par As may be seen, the fossil record indicates that living things did not evolve from primitive to advanced forms, but instead emerged all of a sudden and in a perfect state. The absence of the transitional form
s is not peculiar to the Cambrian period. Not a single transitional form verifying the alleged evolutionary "progression" of vertebrates \endash  from fish to amphibians, reptiles, birds, and mammals \endash 
 has ever been found. Every living species appears instantaneously and in its current form, perfect and complete, in the fossil record.
\par In other words, living beings did not come into existence through evolution. They were created.
\par }\pard\plain \s19\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\sb360\sa120\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5133142 \b\f8\fs22\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs26\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
\page EVOLUTION FORGERIES}{\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949  
\par }\pard \s19\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\sb120\sa120\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5133142 {\fs26\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 Deceptions in Drawings}{
\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
The fossil record is the principal source
 for those who seek evidence for the theory of evolution. When inspected carefully and without prejudice, the fossil record refutes the theory of evolution rather than supporting it. Nevertheless, misleading interpretations of fossils by evolutionists and
 their prejudiced representation to the public have given many people the impression that the fossil record indeed supports the theory of evolution.
\par The susceptibility of some findings in the fossil record to all kinds of interpretations is what best serves
 the evolutionists' purposes. The fossils unearthed are most of the time unsatisfactory for reliable identification. They usually consist of scattered, incomplete bone fragments. For this reason, it is very easy to distort the available data and to use it
 
as desired. Not surprisingly, the reconstructions (drawings and models) made by evolutionists based on such fossil remains are prepared entirely speculatively in order to confirm evolutionary theses. Since people are readily affected by visual information
, these imaginary reconstructed models are employed to convince them that the reconstructed creatures really existed in the past.
\par Evolutionist researchers draw human-like imaginary creatures, usually setting out from a single tooth, or a mandible fragment o
r a humerus, and present them to the public in a sensational manner as if they were links in human evolution. These drawings have played a great role in the establishment of the image of "primitive men" in the minds of many people.
\par These studies based on b
one remains can only reveal very general characteristics of the creature concerned. The distinctive details are present in the soft tissues that quickly vanish with time. With the soft tissues speculatively interpreted, everything becomes possible within 
the boundaries of the imagination of the reconstruction's producer. Earnst A. Hooten from Harvard University explains the situation like this:
\par }\pard\plain \s18\qj \li227\ri0\sb113\sa113\sl-280\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin227\itap0 \f8\fs18\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
To attempt to restore the soft parts is an even more hazardous undertaking. The lips, the eyes, the ears, and the 
nasal tip leave no clues on the underlying bony parts. You can with equal facility model on a Neanderthaloid skull the features of a chimpanzee or the lineaments of a philosopher. These alleged restorations of ancient types of man have very little if any 
scientific value and are likely only to mislead the public\'85 So put not your trust in reconstructions.}{\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 95}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\sb360\sa120\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5133142 \b\f8\fs22\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs26\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
Studies Made to Fabricate False Fossils
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
Unable to find valid evidence in the fossil record for the theory of evolution, some evolutionists have ventured 
to manufacture their own. These efforts, which have even been included in encyclopaedias under the heading "evolution forgeries", are the most telling indication that the theory of evolution is an ideology and a philosophy that evolutionists are hard put 
to defend. Two of the most egregious and notorious of these forgeries are described below.
\par }\pard\plain \s19\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\sb360\sa120\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5133142 \b\f8\fs22\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs26\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
\page Piltdown Man
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
Charles Dawson, a well-known doctor and amateur paleoanthropologist, came forth with a claim that he had found a jawbone and a cranial fragment in a pit
 in the area of Piltdown, England, in 1912. Although the skull was human-like, the jawbone was distinctly simian. These specimens were christened the "Piltdown Man". Alleged to be 500 thousand years old, they were displayed as absolute proofs of human evo
lution. For more than 40 years, many scientific articles were written on the "Piltdown Man", many interpretations and drawings were made and the fossil was presented as crucial evidence of human evolution.
\par In 1949, scientists examined the fossil once more and concluded that the "fossil" was a deliberate forgery consisting of a human skull and the jawbone of an orang-utan.
\par Using the fluorine dating method, investigators discovered that the skull was only a few thousand years old. The teeth in the jawbone, whi
ch belonged to an orang-utan, had been artificially worn down and the "primitive" tools that had conveniently accompanied the fossils were crude forgeries that had been sharpened with steel implements. In the detailed analysis completed by Oakley, Weiner 
a
nd Clark, they revealed this forgery to the public in 1953. The skull belonged to a 500-year-old man, and the mandibular bone belonged to a recently deceased ape! The teeth were thereafter specially arranged in an array and added to the jaw and the joints
 
were filed in order to make them resemble that of a man. Then all these pieces were stained with potassium dichromate to give them a dated appearance. (These stains disappeared when dipped in acid.) Le Gros Clark, who was a member of the team that disclos
ed the forgery, could not hide his astonishment:
\par }\pard\plain \s18\qj \li227\ri0\sb113\sa113\sl-280\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin227\itap0 \f8\fs18\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
The evidences of artificial abrasion immediately sprang to the eye. Indeed so obvious did they seem it may well be asked: how was it that they had escaped notice before?}{\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 96}{
\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\sb360\sa120\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5133142 \b\f8\fs22\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs26\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
Nebraska Man
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 In 1922, Henry Fairfiel
d Osborn, the director of the American Museum of Natural History, declared that he had found a molar tooth fossil in western Nebraska near Snake Brook belonging to the Pliocene period. This tooth allegedly bore the common characteristics of both man and a
p
e. Deep scientific arguments began in which some interpreted this tooth to be that of Pithecanthropus erectus while others claimed it was closer to that of modern human beings. This fossil, which aroused extensive debate, was popularly named "Nebraska Man
". It was also immediately given a "scientific name": "Hesperopithecus Haroldcooki".
\par Many authorities gave Osborn their support. Based on this single tooth, reconstructions of Nebraska Man's head and body were drawn. Moreover, Nebraska Man was even pictured with a whole family.
\par In 1927, other parts of the skeleton were also found. According to these newly discovered pieces, the tooth belonged neither to a man nor to an ape. It was realised that it belonged to an extinct species of wild American pig called Prosthennops.
\par }\pard\plain \s19\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\sb360\sa120\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5133142 \b\f8\fs22\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs26\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
\page Did Men and Apes Come from a Common Ancestor?}{\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 According to the claims o
f the theory of evolution, men and modern apes have common ancestors. These creatures evolved in time and some of them became the apes of today, while another group that followed another branch of evolution became the men of today.
\par Evolutionists call the so-called first common ancestors of men and apes "}{\i\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid5133142\charrsid5133142 Australopithecus}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
" which means "South African ape". }{\i\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid5133142\charrsid5133142 Australopithecus}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
, nothing but an old ape species that has become extinct, has various types. Some of them are robust, while others are small and slight.
\par Evolutionists classify the next stage of human evolution as "Homo", that is "man". According to the evolutionist claim, the living beings in the Homo series are more developed than }{\i\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid5133142\charrsid5133142 
Australopithecus}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 , and not very much different from modern man. The modern man of our day, }{\i\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid5133142\charrsid5133142 Homo Sapiens}{
\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 , is said to have formed at the latest stage of the evolution of this species.
\par The fact of the matter is that the beings called }{\i\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid5133142\charrsid5133142 Australopithecus}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
 in this imaginary scenario fabricated by evolutionists really are apes that became exti
nct, and the beings in the Homo series are members of various human races that lived in the past and then disappeared. Evolutionists arranged various ape and human fossils in an order from the smallest to the biggest in order to form a "human evolution" s
cheme. Research, however, has demonstrated that these fossils by no means imply an evolutionary process and some of these alleged ancestors of man were real apes whereas some of them were real humans.
\par }\pard\plain \qj \fi340\li0\ri0\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs24\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 Now, let us have a look at }{
\i\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid5133142\charrsid5133142 Australopithecus}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 , which represents to evolutionists the first stage of the scheme of human evolution.
\par }\pard\plain \s19\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\sb360\sa120\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5133142 \b\f8\fs22\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\i\fs26\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid5133142\charrsid5133142 
Australopithecus}{\fs26\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 : Extinct Apes}{\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 Evolutionists claim that }{
\i\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid5133142\charrsid5133142 Australopithecus}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
 are the most primitive ancestors of modern men. These are an old species with a head and skull structure similar to that of modern apes, yet with a smaller cranial capacity. According to the claims of evolutionists, these creatures have a very important 
feature that authenticates them as the ancestors of men: bipedalism.
\par The movements of apes and men are completely different. Human beings are the only living creatures that move freely about on two feet. Some other animals do have a limited ability to move in this way, but those that do have bent skeletons.
\par According to evolutionists, these living beings called }{\i\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid5133142\charrsid5133142 Australopithecus}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
 had the ability to walk in a bent rather than an upright posture like human beings. Even this limited bipedal stride was sufficient to encourage evolutionists to project onto these creatures that they were the ancestors of man.
\par However, the first evidence refuting the allegations of evolutionists that }{\i\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid5133142\charrsid5133142 Australopithecus}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
 were bipedal came from evolutionists themselves. Detailed studies made on }{\i\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid5133142\charrsid5133142 Australopithecus}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
 fossils forced even evolutionists to admit that these looked "too" ape-like. Having conducted detailed anatomical research on }{\i\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid5133142\charrsid5133142 Australopithecus}{
\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949  fossils in the mid-1970s, Charles E. Oxnard likened the skeletal structure of }{\i\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid5133142\charrsid5133142 Australopithecus}{
\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949  to that of modern orang-utans:
\par }\pard\plain \s18\qj \li227\ri0\sb113\sa113\sl-280\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin227\itap0 \f8\fs18\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
An important part of today's conventional wisdom about human evolution is based on studies of teeth, jaws and skull fragments of australopithecine fossils. These all indicate that the close relation of the australopithec
ine to the human lineage may not be true. All these fossils are different from gorillas, chimpanzees and men. Studied as a group, the australopithecine seems more like the orang-utan.}{
\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 97}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
What really embarrassed evolutionists was the discovery that }{\i\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid5133142\charrsid5133142 Australopithecus}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
 could not have walked on two feet and with a bent posture. It would have been physically very ineffective for }{\i\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid5133142\charrsid5133142 Australopithecus}{
\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 , allegedly bipedal but with a bent stride, to move about in such a way because of the enormous energy demands it would ha
ve entailed. By means of computer simulations conducted in 1996, the English paleoanthropologist Robin Crompton also demonstrated that such a "compound" stride was impossible. Crompton reached the following conclusion: a living being can walk either uprig
ht or on all fours. A type of in-between stride cannot be sustained for long periods because of the extreme energy consumption. This means that }{\i\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid5133142\charrsid5133142 Australopithecus}{
\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949  could not have been both bipedal and have a bent walking posture.
\par Probably the most important study demonstrating that }{\i\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid5133142\charrsid5133142 Australopithecus}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
 could not have been bipedal came in 1994 from the research anatomist Fred Spoor and his team in the Department of Human Anatomy and Cellular Biology at the University of Liverpool, England. This group conducted studi
es on the bipedalism of fossilised living beings. Their research investigated the involuntary balance mechanism found in the cochlea of the ear, and the findings showed conclusively that }{
\i\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid5133142\charrsid5133142 Australopithecus}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949  could not have been bipedal. This precluded any claims that }{
\i\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid5133142\charrsid5133142 Australopithecus}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949  was human-like.}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782 
\par }{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid5133142\charrsid9585949 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\sb360\sa120\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5133142 \b\f8\fs22\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs26\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
The Homo Series: Real Human Beings}{\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
The next step in the imaginary human evolution is "Homo", that is, the human series. These living beings are humans who are no different from modern men, yet who have some racial 
differences. Seeking to exaggerate these differences, evolutionists represent these people not as a "race" of modern man but as a different "species". However, as we will soon see, the people in the Homo series are nothing but ordinary human racial types.

\par According to the fanciful scheme of evolutionists, the internal imaginary evolution of the Homo species is as follows: First Homo erectus, then }{\i\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid5133142\charrsid5133142 Homo Sapiens}{
\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949  archaic and Neanderthal Man, later Cro-Magnon Man and finally modern man.
\par Despite the claims of evolutionists to the contrary, all the "species" we have enumerated above are nothing but genuine human beings. Let us first examine Homo erectus, who evolutionists refer to as the most primitive human species.
\par The most striking evidence showing that }{\i\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid5133142\charrsid5133142 Homo Erectus }{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
is not a "primitive" species is the fossil of "Turkana Boy", one of the oldest }{\i\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid5133142\charrsid5133142 Homo Erectus }{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
remains. It is estimated that the fossil was of a 12-year-old boy, who would have been 1.83 meters tall in his adolescence. The upright skeletal structure of t
he fossil is no different from that of modern man. Its tall and slender skeletal structure totally complies with that of the people living in tropical regions in our day. This fossil is one of the most important pieces of evidence that }{
\i\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid5133142\charrsid5133142 Homo Erectus }{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 is simp
ly another specimen of the modern human race. Evolutionist paleontologist Richard Leakey compares }{\i\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid5133142\charrsid5133142 Homo Erectus }{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
and modern man as follows:
\par }\pard\plain \s18\qj \li227\ri0\sb113\sa113\sl-280\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin227\itap0 \f8\fs18\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
One would also see differences in the shape of the skull, in the degree of protrusion of the face, the robustness of t
he brows and so on. These differences are probably no more pronounced than we see today between the separate geographical races of modern humans. Such biological variation arises when populations are geographically separated from each other for significan
t lengths of time.}{\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 98}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
Leakey means to say that the difference between }{\i\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid5133142\charrsid5133142 Homo Erectus }{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
and us is no more than the difference between Negroes and Eskimos. The cranial features of }{\i\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid5133142\charrsid5133142 Homo Erectus }{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
resulted from their manner of feeding, and genetic emigration and from their not assimilating with other human races for a lengthy period.
\par Another strong piece of evidence that }{\i\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid5133142\charrsid5133142 Homo Erectus }{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
is not a "primitive" species is that fossils of this species have been unearthed aged twenty-seven thousand years and even thirteen thousand years. According to an article published in Time \endash 
 which is not a scientific periodical, but nevertheless had a sweeping effect on the world of science \endash  }{\i\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid5133142\charrsid5133142 Homo Erectus }{
\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 fossils aged twenty-seven thousand years were found on the island of Java. In the Kow swamp in Australia, some thirteen thousand year-old fossils were found that bore }{
\i\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid5133142\charrsid5133142 Homo Sapiens}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid5133142\charrsid9585949 -}{\i\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid5133142\charrsid5133142 Homo Erectus }{
\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 characteristics. All these fossils demonstrate that }{\i\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid5133142\charrsid5133142 Homo Erectus }{
\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 continued living up to times very close to our day and were nothing but a human race that has since been buried in history.
\par }\pard\plain \s19\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\sb360\sa120\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5133142 \b\f8\fs22\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\i\fs26\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid5133142 
Archaic }{\i\fs26\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid5133142\charrsid5133142 Homo Sapiens}{\fs26\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949  and Neanderthal Man}{\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 Archaic }{
\i\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid5133142\charrsid5133142 Homo Sapiens}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
 is the immediate forerunner of contemporary man in the imaginary evolutionary scheme. In fact, evolutionists do not have much to say about these men, as there are only minor differences between them and modern men. Some researchers even state that repres
entatives of this race are still living today, and point to the Aborigines in Australia as an example. Like }{\i\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid5133142\charrsid5133142 Homo Sapiens}{
\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 , the Aborigines also have thick protruding eyebrows, an inward-inclined mandibular structure, and a slightly smaller cranial volume. Mor
eover, significant discoveries have been made hinting that such people lived in Hungary and in some villages in Italy until not very long ago.
\par Evolutionists point to human fossils unearthed in the Neander valley of Holland which have been named Neanderthal Man. Many contemporary researchers define Neanderthal Man as a sub-species of modern man and call it "}{
\i\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid5133142\charrsid5133142 Homo Sapiens}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
 neandertalensis". It is definite that this race lived together with modern humans, at the same time and in the same areas. The findings testify that Neanderthals buried their dead, fashioned musical instruments, and had cultural affinities with the }{
\i\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid5133142\charrsid5133142 Homo Sapiens}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
 sapiens living during the same period. Entirely modern skulls and skeletal structures of Neanderthal fossils are not open to any speculation. A prominent authority on the subject, Erik Trinkaus from New Mexico University writes:
\par }\pard\plain \s18\qj \li227\ri0\sb113\sa113\sl-280\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin227\itap0 \f8\fs18\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
Detailed comparisons of Neanderthal skeletal remains with those of modern humans have shown that there is nothing in Neanderthal anatomy that conclusively indica
tes locomotor, manipulative, intellectual, or linguistic abilities inferior to those of modern humans.}{\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 99}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
In fact, Neanderthals even had some "evolutionary" advantages over modern men. The cranial capacity of Neanderthals was larger than that of the modern 
man and they were more robust and muscular than we are. Trinkaus adds: "One of the most characteristic features of the Neanderthals is the exaggerated massiveness of their trunk and limb bones. All of the preserved bones suggest a strength seldom attained
 by modern humans. Furthermore, not only is this robustness present among the adult males, as one might expect, but it is also evident in the adult females, adolescents, and even children."
\par To put it precisely, Neanderthals are a particular human race that assimilated with other races in time.
\par All of these factors show that the scenario of "human evolution" fabricated by evolutionists is a figment of their imaginations, and that men have always been men and apes always apes.
\par }\pard\plain \s19\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\sb360\sa120\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5133142 \b\f8\fs22\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs26\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
\page Can Life Result from Coincidences as Evolution Argues?}{\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
The theory of evolution holds that life started with a cell that formed by chance under primitive earth conditions. Let us therefore examine the composition of the cell with simple comparisons in order to show how irrational it is to
 ascribe the existence of the cell \endash  a structure which still maintains its mystery in many respects, even at a time when we are about to set foot in the 21st century \endash  to natural phenomena and coincidences.
\par With all its operational systems, systems of comm
unication, transportation and management, a cell is no less complex than any city. It contains power stations producing the energy consumed by the cell, factories manufacturing the enzymes and hormones essential for life, a databank where all necessary in
f
ormation about all products to be produced is recorded, complex transportation systems and pipelines for carrying raw materials and products from one place to another, advanced laboratories and refineries for breaking down imported raw materials into thei
r usable parts, and specialised cell membrane proteins for the control of incoming and outgoing materials. These constitute only a small part of this incredibly complex system.
\par Far from being formed under primitive earth conditions, the cell, which in its c
omposition and mechanisms is so complex, cannot be synthesised in even the most sophisticated laboratories of our day. Even with the use of amino acids, the building blocks of the cell, it is not possible to produce so much as a single organelle of the ce
ll, such as mitochondria or ribosome, much less a whole cell. The first cell claimed to have been produced by evolutionary coincidence is as much a figment of the imagination and a product of fantasy as the unicorn.}{
\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782 
\par }{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid5133142\charrsid9585949 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\sb360\sa120\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5133142 \b\f8\fs22\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs26\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
Proteins Challenge Coincidence}{\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 And it is
 not just the cell that cannot be produced: the formation, under natural conditions, of even a single protein of the thousands of complex protein molecules making up a cell is impossible.
\par Proteins are giant molecules consisting of amino acids arranged in a
 particular sequence in certain quantities and structures. These molecules constitute the building blocks of a living cell. The simplest is composed of 50 amino acids; but there are some proteins that are composed of thousands of amino acids. The absence,
 
addition, or replacement of a single amino acid in the structure of a protein in living cells, each of which has a particular function, causes the protein to become a useless molecular heap. Incapable of demonstrating the "accidental formation" of amino a
cids, the theory of evolution founders on the point of the formation of proteins.
\par We can easily demonstrate, with simple probability calculations anybody can understand, that the functional structure of proteins can by no means come about by chance.
\par There are twenty different amino acids. If we consider that an average-sized protein molecule is composed of 288 amino acids, there are 10}{\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 300}{
\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949  different combinations of acids. Of all of these possible sequences, only "one" forms the desired protein molecule. The o
ther amino-acid chains are either completely useless or else potentially harmful to living things. In other words, the probability of the coincidental formation of only one protein molecule cited above is "1 in 10}{
\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 300}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 ". The probability of this "1" occurring
 out of an "astronomical" number consisting of 1 followed by 300 zeros is for all practical purposes zero; it is impossible. Furthermore, a protein molecule of 288 amino acids is rather a modest one compared with some giant protein molecules consisting of
 thousands of amino acids. When we apply similar probability calculations to these giant protein molecules, we see that even the word "impossible" becomes inadequate.
\par If the coincidental formation of even one of these proteins is impossible, it is billions 
of times more impossible for approximately one million of those proteins to come together by chance in an organised fashion and make up a complete human cell. Moreover, a cell is not merely a collection of proteins. In addition to proteins, cells also inc
l
ude nucleic acids, carbohydrates, lipids, vitamins, and many other chemicals such as electrolytes, all of which are arranged harmoniously and with design in specific proportions, both in terms of structure and function. Each functions as a building block 
or component in various organelles.
\par As we have seen, evolution is unable to explain the formation of even a single protein out of the millions in the cell, let alone explain the cell.
\par Prof. Dr. Ali Demirsoy, one of the foremost authorities of evolutionist thought in Turkey, in his book }{\i\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 Kalitim ve Evrim}{
\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949  (Inheritance and Evolution), discusses the probability of the accidental formation of Cytochrome-C, one of the essential enzymes for life:
\par }\pard\plain \s18\qj \li227\ri0\sb113\sa113\sl-280\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin227\itap0 \f8\fs18\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
The probability of the formation of a Cytochrome-C sequence is as like
ly as zero. That is, if life requires a certain sequence, it can be said that this has a probability likely to be realised once in the whole universe. Otherwise, some metaphysical powers beyond our definition should have acted in its formation. To accept 
the latter is not appropriate to the goals of science. We therefore have to look into the first hypothesis.}{\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 100}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 

\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
After these lines, Demirsoy admits that this probability, which he accepted just because it was "more appropriate to the goals of science", is unrealistic:
\par }\pard\plain \s18\qj \li227\ri0\sb113\sa113\sl-280\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin227\itap0 \f8\fs18\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
The probability of providing the particular amino acid sequence of Cytochrome-C is as unlikely as the possibility of a monkey writing the history of humanity on a typewriter \endash  taking it for granted that the monkey pushes the keys at random.}{
\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 101}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
The correct sequence of proper amino acids is simply not enough for the formation of one of the protein molecules present in living things. Besides this, each of the twenty different types of amino acid present in the composition of proteins must be left-
h
anded. Chemically, there are two different types of amino acids called "left-handed" and "right-handed". The difference between them is the mirror-symmetry between their three dimensional structures, which is similar to that of a person's right and left h
a
nds. Amino acids of either of these two types are found in equal numbers in nature and they can bond perfectly well with one another. Yet, research uncovers an astonishing fact: all proteins present in the structure of living things are made up of left-ha
nded amino acids. Even a single right-handed amino acid attached to the structure of a protein renders it useless.
\par Let us for an instant suppose that life came into existence by chance as evolutionists claim. In this case, the right and left-handed amino ac
ids that were generated by chance should be present in nature in roughly equal amounts. The question of how proteins can pick out only left-handed amino acids, and how not even a single right-handed amino acid becomes involved in the life process is somet
hing that still confounds evolutionists. In the }{\i\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 Britannica Science Encyclopaedia}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
, an ardent defender of evolution, the authors indicate that the amino acids of all living organisms on earth and the building blocks of complex polymers such as proteins have t
he same left-handed asymmetry. They add that this is tantamount to tossing a coin a million times and always getting heads. In the same encyclopaedia, they state that it is not possible to understand why molecules become left-handed or right-handed and th
at this choice is fascinatingly related to the source of life on earth.}{\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 102}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
\par It is not enough for amino acids to be arranged in the correct numbers, sequences, and in the required three-dimensional structures. The formation of a protein also requires that ami
no acid molecules with more than one arm be linked to each other only through certain arms. Such a bond is called a "peptide bond". Amino acids can make different bonds with each other; but proteins comprise those and only those amino acids that join toge
ther by "peptide" bonds.
\par Research has shown that only 50 % of amino acids, combining at random, combine with a peptide bond and that the rest combine with different bonds that are not present in proteins. To function properly, each amino acid making up a pr
otein must join with other amino acids with a peptide bond, as it has only to be chosen from among the left-handed ones. Unquestionably, there is no control mechanism to select and leave out the right-handed amino acids and personally make sure that each 
amino acid makes a peptide bond with the other.
\par Under these circumstances, the probabilities of an average protein molecule comprising five hundred amino acids arranging itself in the correct quantities and in sequence, in addition to the probabilities of a
ll of the amino acids it contains being only left-handed and combining using only peptide bonds are as follows:}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782 
\par }{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid5133142\charrsid9585949 
\par }\pard\plain \qj \li340\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin340\itap0 \f8\fs24\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\b\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid15409917 \endash 
 The probability of being in the right sequence \tab \tab 
\par = 1/20}{\b\f0\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid15409917 500}{\b\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid15409917  =1/10}{\b\f0\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid15409917 650}{
\b\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid15409917 
\par \endash  The probability of being left-handed\tab \tab \tab 
\par = 1/2}{\b\f0\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid15409917 500}{\b\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid15409917 \tab  =1/10}{\b\f0\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid15409917 150
}{\b\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid15409917 
\par \endash  The probability of combining using a "peptide bond" \tab 
\par = 1/2}{\b\f0\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid15409917 499}{\b\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid15409917 \tab  =1/10}{\b\f0\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid15409917 150
}{\b\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid15409917 
\par TOTAL PROBABILITY\tab 
\par = 1/10}{\b\f0\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid15409917 950}{\b\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid15409917  that is, "1" probability in 10}{
\b\f0\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid15409917 950}{\b\f0\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782 
\par }{\b\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid5133142\charrsid15409917 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
As you can see above, the probability of the formation of a protein molecule comprising five hundred amino acids is "1
" divided by a number formed by placing 950 zeros after a 1, a number incomprehensible to the human mind. This is only a probability on paper. Practically, such a possibility has "0" chance of realisation. In mathematics, a probability smaller than 1 over
 10}{\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 50}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949  is statistically considered to have a "0" probability of realisation.
\par While the improbability of the formation of a protein molecule made up of five hundred amino acids reaches such an extent, we can further proceed to push the limits of the mind to h
igher levels of improbability. In the "haemoglobin" molecule, a vital protein, there are five hundred and seventy-four amino acids, which is a much larger number than that of the amino acids making up the protein mentioned above. Now consider this: in onl
y
 one out of the billions of red blood cells in your body, there are "280,000,000" (280 million) haemoglobin molecules. The supposed age of the earth is not sufficient to afford the formation of even a single protein, let alone a red blood cell, by the met
hod of "trial and error". The conclusion from all this is that evolution falls into a terrible abyss of improbability right at the stage of the formation of a single protein.
\par }\pard\plain \s19\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\sb360\sa120\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5133142 \b\f8\fs22\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs26\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
\page Looking for Answers to the Generation of Life}{\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 Well awar
e of the terrible odds against the possibility of life forming by chance, evolutionists were unable to provide a rational explanation for their beliefs, so they set about looking for ways to demonstrate that the odds were not so unfavourable.
\par They designed
 a number of laboratory experiments to address the question of how life could generate itself from non-living matter. The best known and most respected of these experiments is the one known as the "Miller Experiment" or "Urey-Miller Experiment", which was
 conducted by the American researcher Stanley Miller in 1953.
\par With the purpose of proving that amino acids could have come into existence by accident, Miller created an atmosphere in his laboratory that he assumed would have existed on primordial earth (but
 which later proved to be unrealistic) and he set to work. The mixture he used for this primordial atmosphere was composed of ammonia, methane, hydrogen, and water vapour.
\par Miller knew that methane, ammonia, water vapour and hydrogen would not react with ea
ch other under natural conditions. He was aware that he had to inject energy into the mixture to start a reaction. He suggested that this energy could have come from lightning flashes in the primordial atmosphere and, relying on this supposition, he used 
an artificial electricity discharge in his experiments.
\par Miller boiled this gas mixture at 100 0C for a week, and, in addition, he introduced an electric current into the chamber. At the end of the week, Miller analysed the chemicals that had been formed in 
the chamber and observed that three of the twenty amino acids, which constitute the basic elements of proteins, had been synthesised.
\par This experiment aroused great excitement among evolutionists and they promoted it as an outstanding success. Encouraged by
 the thought that this experiment definitely verified their theory, evolutionists immediately produced new scenarios. Miller had supposedly proved that amino acids could form by themselves. Relying on this, they hurriedly hypothesised the following stages
.
 According to their scenario, amino acids had later by accident united in the proper sequences to form proteins. Some of these accidentally formed proteins placed themselves in cell membrane-like structures, which "somehow" came into existence and formed 
a primitive cell. The cells united in time and formed living organisms. The greatest mainstay of the scenario was Miller's experiment.
\par However, Miller's experiment was nothing but make-believe, and has since been proven invalid in many respects.
\par }\pard\plain \s19\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\sb360\sa120\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5133142 \b\f8\fs22\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs26\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
The Invalidity of Miller's Experiment}{\b0\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
Nearly half a century has passed since Miller conducted his experiment. Although it has been shown to be invalid in many respects, evolutionists still advance Miller and his results as absolute proof that life could have formed s
pontaneously from non-living matter. When we assess Miller's experiment critically, without the bias and subjectivity of evolutionist thinking, however, it is evident that the situation is not as rosy as evolutionists would have us think. Miller set for h
imself the goal of proving that amino acids could form by themselves in earth's primitive conditions. Some amino acids were produced, but the conduct of the experiment conflicts with his goal in many ways, as we shall now see.
\par }{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid5133142\charrsid9585949 \bullet  Miller}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949  isolated the amino ac
ids from the environment as soon as they were formed, by using a mechanism called a "cold trap". Had he not done so, the conditions of the environment in which the amino acids formed would immediately have destroyed the molecules.
\par It is quite meaningless t
o suppose that some conscious mechanism of this sort was integral to earth's primordial conditions, which involved ultraviolet radiation, thunderbolts, various chemicals, and a high percentage of free oxygen. Without such a mechanism, any amino acid that 
did manage to form would immediately have been destroyed.
\par }{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid5133142\charrsid9585949 \bullet  The}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
 primordial atmospheric environment that Miller attempted to simulate in his experiment was not realistic. Nitrogen and carbon dioxide would have been constituents of the primordial atmosphere, 
but Miller disregarded this and used methane and ammonia instead.
\par Why? Why were evolutionists insistent on the point that the primitive atmosphere contained high amounts of methane (CH}{\fs22\dn6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 4}{
\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 ), ammonia (NH}{\fs22\dn6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 3}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 ), and water vapour (H}{
\fs22\dn6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 2}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 O)? The answer is simple: without
 ammonia, it is impossible to synthesise an amino acid. Kevin McKean talks about this in an article published in }{\i\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid5133142 Discover}{
\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949  magazine:
\par }\pard\plain \s18\qj \li227\ri0\sb113\sa113\sl-280\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin227\itap0 \f8\fs18\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
Miller and Urey imitated the ancient atmosphere of earth with a mixture of methane and ammo
nia. According to them, the earth was a true homogeneous mixture of metal, rock and ice. However in the latest studies, it is understood that the earth was very hot at those times and that it was composed of melted nickel and iron. Therefore, the chemical
 atmosphere of that time should have been formed mostly of nitrogen (N}{\fs22\dn6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 2}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 ), carbon dioxide (CO}{
\fs22\dn6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 2}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 ) and water vapour (H}{\fs22\dn6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 2}{
\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 O). However these are not as appropriate as methane and ammonia for the production of organic molecules.}{\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 103}{
\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
After a long period of silence, Miller himself also confessed that the atmospheric environment he used in his experiment was not realistic.
\par }{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid5133142\charrsid9585949 \bullet  Another}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
 important point invalidating Miller's experiment is that there was enough oxygen to destroy all the amino acids in the atmosphere at the tim
e when evolutionists thought that amino acids formed. This oxygen concentration would definitely have hindered the formation of amino acids. This situation completely negates Miller's experiment, in which he totally neglected oxygen. If he had used oxygen
 in the experiment, methane would have decomposed into carbon dioxide and water, and ammonia would have decomposed into nitrogen and water.
\par On the other hand, since no ozone layer yet existed, no organic molecule could possibly have lived on earth because it was entirely unprotected against intense ultraviolet rays.
\par }{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid5133142\charrsid9585949 \bullet  In}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
 addition to a few amino acids essential for life, Miller's experiment also produced many organic acids with characteristics that are quite detrimental to the structures and functions of livi
ng things. If he had not isolated the amino acids and had left them in the same environment with these chemicals, their destruction or transformation into different compounds through chemical reactions would have been unavoidable. Moreover, a large number
 
of right-handed amino acids also formed. The existence of these amino acids alone refuted the theory, even within its own reasoning, because right-handed amino acids are unable to function in the composition of living organisms and render proteins useless
 when they are involved in their composition.
\par To conclude, the circumstances in which amino acids formed in Miller's experiment were not suitable for life forms to come into being. The medium in which they formed was an acidic mixture that destroyed and oxi
dised any useful molecules that might have been obtained.
\par Evolutionists themselves actually refute the theory of evolution, as they are often wont to do, by advancing this experiment as "proof". If the experiment proves anything, it is that amino acids can
 only be produced in a controlled laboratory environment where all the necessary conditions have been specifically and consciously designed. That is, the experiment shows that what brings life (even the "near-life" of amino acids) into being cannot be unc
onscious chance, but rather conscious will \endash  in a word, Creation. This is why every stage of Creation is a sign proving to us the existence and might of Allah.}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782 
\par }{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid5133142\charrsid9585949 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\sb360\sa120\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5133142 \b\f8\fs22\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs26\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
The Miraculous Molecule: DNA}{\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
The theory of evolution has been unable to provide a coherent expla
nation for the existence of the molecules that are the basis of the cell. Furthermore, developments in the science of genetics and the discovery of the nucleic acids (DNA and RNA) have produced brand-new problems for the theory of evolution.
\par In 1955, the w
ork of two scientists on DNA, James Watson and Francis Crick, launched a new era in biology. Many scientists directed their attention to the science of genetics. Today, after years of research, scientists have, largely, mapped the structure of DNA.
\par Here, we need to give some very basic information on the structure and function of DNA:
\par The molecule called DNA, which exists in the nucleus of each of the 100 trillion cells in our body, contains the complete construction plan of the human body. Information rega
rding all the characteristics of a person, from the physical appearance to the structure of the inner organs, is recorded in DNA by means of a special coding system. The information in DNA is coded within the sequence of four special bases that make up th
i
s molecule. These bases are specified as A, T, G, and C according to the initial letters of their names. All the structural differences among people depend on the variations in the sequence of these bases. There are approximately 3.5 billion nucleotides, 
that is, 3.5 billion letters in a DNA molecule.
\par The DNA data pertaining to a particular organ or protein is included in special components called "genes". For instance, information about the eye exists in a series of special genes, whereas information about
 the heart exists in quite another series of genes. The cell produces proteins by using the information in all of these genes. Amino acids that constitute the structure of the protein are defined by the sequential arrangement of three nucleotides in the D
NA.
\par At this point, an important detail deserves attention. An error in the sequence of nucleotides making up a gene renders the gene completely useless. When we consider that there are 200 thousand genes in the human body, it becomes more evident how imposs
ible it is for the millions of nucleotides making up these genes to form by accident in the right sequence. An evolutionist biologist, Frank Salisbury, comments on this impossibility by saying:
\par }\pard\plain \s18\qj \li227\ri0\sb113\sa113\sl-280\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin227\itap0 \f8\fs18\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
A medium protein might include about 300 amino acids. The DNA gene controlling this would have about 1,000 nucleotides in its chain. Since there are four kinds of nucleotides in a DNA chain, one consisting of 1,000 links could exist in 4}{
\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 1000}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949  forms. Using a little algebra (logarithms), we can see that 4}{
\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 1000}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 =10}{\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 600}{
\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 . Ten multiplied by itself 600 times gives the figure 1 followed by 600 zeros! This number is completely beyond our comprehension.}{
\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 104}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 The number 4}{
\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 1000}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949  is equivalent to 10}{\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 600}{
\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 . We obtain this number by adding 600 zeros to 1. As 10 with 11 zeros }{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid15409917\charrsid9585949 indicate}{
\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949  a trillion, a figure with 600 zeros is indeed a number that is difficult to grasp.
\par Evolutionist Prof. Ali Demirsoy was forced to make the following admission on this issue:
\par }\pard\plain \s18\qj \li227\ri0\sb113\sa113\sl-280\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin227\itap0 \f8\fs18\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
In fact, the probability of the random formation of a protein and a nucleic acid (DNA-RNA) is inconceivably small. The chances against the emergence of even a particular protein chain are astronomic.}{
\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 105}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
In addition to all these improbabilities, DNA can barely be involved in a reaction because of its double-chained spiral shape. This also makes it impossible to think that it can be the basis of life.
\par Moreover, while DNA can replicate only with the help of some enzymes that are actually proteins, the synthesis of these enzymes can be realised only by the information coded in DNA. As they b
oth depend on each other, either they have to exist at the same time for replication, or one of them has had to be "created" before the other. American microbiologist Jacobson comments on the subject:
\par The complete directions for the reproduction of plans, for energy and the extraction of parts from the current environment, for the growth sequence, and for the effector mechanism translating instructions into growth \endash 
 all had to be simultaneously present at that moment (when life began). This combination of events has seemed an incredibly unlikely happenstance, and has often been ascribed to divine intervention.}{
\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 106}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
\par The quotation above was written two years after the disclosure of the structure of DNA by James Watson and Francis Crick. Despite all the developme
nts in science, this problem remains unsolved for evolutionists. To sum up, the need for DNA in reproduction, the necessity of the presence of some proteins for }{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid15409917\charrsid9585949 reproduction}{
\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949  and the requirement to produce these proteins according to the information in the DNA entirely demolish evolutionist theses.
\par Two German scientists, Junker and Scherer, explained that the synthesis of each of the molecules required for chemical }{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid15409917\charrsid9585949 evolution}{
\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949  necessitates distinct conditions, and that the probability of the compounding of these materials having theoretically very different acquirement methods is zero:
\par }\pard\plain \s18\qj \li227\ri0\sb113\sa113\sl-280\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin227\itap0 \f8\fs18\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
Until now, no experiment is known in which we can obtain all the molecules necessary for chemical evolution. Therefore, it is essential to produce various molecules in different 
places under very suitable conditions and then to carry them to another place for reaction by protecting them from harmful elements like hydrolysis and photolysis.}{\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 107}{
\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
In short, the theory of evolution is unable to prove any of the evolutionary stages that allegedly occur at the molecular level.
\par To summarise what we have said so far, neither amino acids nor their products, the proteins making up the cells of living beings, could ever be produced in any so-called "primitive atmosphere" environment. Moreover, 
factors such as the incredibly complex structure of proteins, their right-hand, left-hand features, and the difficulties in the formation of peptide bonds are just parts of the reason why they will never be produced in any future experiment either.
\par Even if
 we suppose for a moment that proteins somehow did form accidentally, that would still have no meaning, for proteins are nothing at all on their own: they cannot themselves reproduce. Protein synthesis is only possible with the information coded in DNA an
d
 RNA molecules. Without DNA and RNA, it is impossible for a protein to reproduce. The specific sequence of the twenty different amino acids encoded in DNA determines the structure of each protein in the body. However, as has been made abundantly clear by 
all those who have studied these molecules, it is impossible for DNA and RNA to form by chance.
\par }\pard\plain \s19\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\sb360\sa120\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5133142 \b\f8\fs22\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs26\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
\page The Fact of Creation}{\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
With the collapse of the theory of evolution in every field, prominent names in the discipline of microbiology today admit the fact of crea
tion and have begun to defend the view that everything is created by a conscious Creator as part of an exalted creation. This is already a fact that people cannot disregard. Scientists who can approach their work with an open mind have developed a view ca
lled "intelligent design". Michael J. Behe, one of the foremost of these scientists, states that he accepts the absolute being of the Creator and describes the impasse of those who deny this fact:
\par }\pard\plain \s18\qj \li227\ri0\sb113\sa113\sl-280\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin227\itap0 \f8\fs18\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
The result of these cumulative efforts to investigate the cell \endash  to investigate life at the molecular level \endash 
 is a loud, clear, piercing cry of "design!" The result is so unambiguous and so significant that it must be ranked as one of the greatest achievements in the history of science. This triumph of science shou
ld evoke cries of "Eureka" from ten thousand throats.
\par But, no bottles have been uncorked, no hands clapped. Instead, a curious, embarrassed silence surrounds the stark complexity of the cell. When the subject comes up in public, feet start to shuffle, and 
breathing gets a bit laboured. In private people are a bit more relaxed; many explicitly admit the obvious but then stare at the ground, shake their heads, and let it go like that. Why does the scientific community not greedily embrace its startling disco
very? Why is the observation of design handled with intellectual gloves? The dilemma is that while one side of the elephant is labelled intelligent design, the other side must be labelled God.}{
\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 108}{\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
Today, many people are not even aware that they are in a posi
tion of accepting a body of fallacy as truth in the name of science, instead of believing in Allah. Those who do not find the sentence "Allah created you from nothing" scientific enough can believe that the first living being came into being by thunderbol
ts striking a "primordial soup" billions of years ago.
\par As we have described elsewhere in this book, the balances in nature are so delicate and so numerous that it is entirely irrational to claim that they developed "by chance". No matter how much those who 
cannot set themselves free from this irrationality may strive, the signs of Allah in the heavens and the earth are completely obvious and they are undeniable.
\par Allah is the Creator of the heavens, the earth and all that is in between.
\par }\pard \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 The signs of His being have encompassed the entire universe.
\par }\pard\plain \s28\qc \li567\ri567\nowidctlpar
\tx708\tx1416\tx2124\tx2832\tx3540\tx4248\tx4956\tx5664\tx6372\tx7080\tx7788\tx8496\tx9204\tx9912\tx10620\tx11328\tx12036\tx12744\tx13452\tx14160\tx14868\tx15576\tx16284\tx16992\tx17700\tx18408\tx19116\tx19824\tx20532\tx21240\tx21948\tx22656
\tx23364\tx24072\tx24780\tx25488\tx26196\tx26904\tx27612\tx28320\faauto\adjustright\rin567\lin567\itap0\pararsid9068159 \i\f75\fs22\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\b\f0\fs28\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid9068159 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par }{\b\f0\fs28\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid9068159\charrsid14224617 They said, \line Glory be to You! \line We have no knowledge \line except what You have taught us. \line You are }{\b\f0\fs28\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid9068159 
the All-Knowing, \line the All-Wise}{\b\f0\fs28\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid9068159\charrsid14224617 
\par }\pard\plain \s27\qc \li567\ri567\sb144\sa288\sl200\slmult0\nowidctlpar
\tx708\tx1416\tx2124\tx2832\tx3540\tx4248\tx4956\tx5664\tx6372\tx7080\tx7788\tx8496\tx9204\tx9912\tx10620\tx11328\tx12036\tx12744\tx13452\tx14160\tx14868\tx15576\tx16284\tx16992\tx17700\tx18408\tx19116\tx19824\tx20532\tx21240\tx21948\tx22656
\tx23364\tx24072\tx24780\tx25488\tx26196\tx26904\tx27612\tx28320\faauto\adjustright\rin567\lin567\itap0\pararsid9068159 \f75\fs18\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\b\f0\fs28\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid9068159\charrsid14224617 
(Surah Al-Baqarah: 32)
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\sb480\sa120\sl480\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5133142 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
\page }{\b\fs36\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 NOTES
\par }\pard \s15\qj \li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 1 }{\i\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 National Geographic}{
\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 , vol.165, no.6 , p. 775.
\par }\pard\plain \s16\qj \fi-112\li120\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin120\itap0 \f8\fs14\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 2 Bert H\'f6lldobler-Edward O.Wilson, }{
\i\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 The Ants}{\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 , Harvard University Press, 1990, p. 1.
\par 3 }{\i\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 Bilim ve Teknik Dergisi }{\f829\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 (Journal of Science and Technics), say\'fd: 190, s. 4.
\par }{\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 4 Bert H\'f6lldobler-Edward O.Wilson, }{\i\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 The Ants}{\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
, Harvard University Press, 1990, p. 330-331.
\par }{\fs18\lang1036\langfe1055\langnp1036\insrsid294782\charrsid2436030 5 }{\i\fs18\lang1036\langfe1055\langnp1036\insrsid294782\charrsid2436030 Focus Dergisi}{\fs18\lang1036\langfe1055\langnp1036\insrsid294782\charrsid2436030 
 (Focus Magazine), October 1996.
\par 6 }{\i\fs18\lang1036\langfe1055\langnp1036\insrsid294782\charrsid2436030 Focus Dergisi}{\fs18\lang1036\langfe1055\langnp1036\insrsid294782\charrsid2436030  (Focus Magazine), October 1996.
\par }{\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 7 }{\i\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 National Geographic}{\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 , vol.165, no.6, p. 777.

\par 8 Bert H\'f6lldobler-Edward O.Wilson, }{\i\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 The Ants}{\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 , Harvard University Press, 1990, p. 227.
\par 9 Bert H\'f6lldobler-Edward O.Wilson, }{\i\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 The Ants}{\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 , Harvard University Press, p. 244.
\par 10 Bert H\'f6lldobler-Edward O.Wilson, }{\i\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 The Ants}{\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 , Harvard University Press, p. 2.
\par 11 Bert H\'f6lldobler-Edward O.Wilson, }{\i\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 The Ants}{\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 , Harvard University Press,}{
\i\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949  }{\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 p. 244.
\par 12 Bert H\'f6lldobler-Edward O.Wilson, }{\i\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 The Ants}{\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 , Harvard University Press, p. 197.
\par 13 Bert H\'f6lldobler-Edward O.Wilson, }{\i\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 The Ants}{\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 , Harvard University Press, p. 204.
\par 14 Bert H\'f6lldobler-Edward O.Wilson, }{\i\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 The Ants}{\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 , Harvard University Press, p. 293.
\par 15 Bert H\'f6lldobler-Edward O.Wilson, }{\i\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 The Ants}{\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 , Harvard University Press, p. 258.
\par 16 Bert H\'f6lldobler-Edward O.Wilson, }{\i\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 The Ants}{\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 , Harvard University Press, p. 255.
\par 17 Bert H\'f6lldobler-Edward O.Wilson, }{\i\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 The Ants}{\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 , Harvard University Press, p. 256.
\par 18 Bert H\'f6lldobler-Edward O.Wilson, }{\i\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 The Ants}{\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 , Harvard University Press, p. 257.
\par 19 }{\i\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 National Geographic}{\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 , July 1995, p. 100.
\par 20 Bert H\'f6lldobler-Edward O.Wilson, }{\i\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 The Ants}{\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 , Harvard University Press, 1990, p. 597-598.
\par 21 }{\i\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 The Insects}{\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 , Peter Farb and the Editors of Time-Life Books, p. 164.
\par 22 }{\i\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 National Geographic}{\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 , July 1995, p. 104.
\par 23 }{\i\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 National Geographic}{\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 , July 1995, p. 100.
\par 24 }{\i\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 National Geographic}{\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 , July 1995, p. 104.
\par 25 }{\i\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 National Geographic}{\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 , July 1995, p. 100.
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-112\li120\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin120\itap0 \f8\fs24\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 26 }{
\i\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 National Geographic}{\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 , July 1995, p. 104.
\par }\pard\plain \s16\qj \fi-112\li120\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin120\itap0 \f8\fs14\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 27 Harun Yahya, }{
\i\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 For Men of Understanding}{\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 , Ta-Ha Publishers, 1999, p. 148-149
\par 28 Bert H\'f6lldobler-Edward O.Wilson, }{\i\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 The Ants}{\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 , Harvard University Press, 1990, p. 626.
\par 29 }{\i\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 The Insects}{\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 , Peter Farb and the Editors of Time-Life Books, p. 163.
\par 30 }{\i\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 National Geographic}{\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 , June 1984, p. 803.
\par 31 }{\i\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 Bilim ve Teknik Dergisi}{\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949  (Journal of Science and Technics), June 1978, no: 127, p.44.
\par 32 }{\i\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 National Geographic}{\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 , June 1984, p. 813.
\par 33 Bert H\'f6lldobler-Edward O.Wilson, }{\i\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 The Ants}{\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 , Harvard University Press, 1990, p. 176-177, 450.
\par 34 }{\i\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 The Insects}{\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 , Peter Farb and the Editors of Time-Life Books, p. 164.
\par 35 }{\i\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 Encyclopaedia of Animals}{\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 , Maurice-Robert Burton, C.P.B.C Publishing Ltd., p. 14.
\par 36 }{\i\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 National Geographic}{\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 , June 1984, p. 797.
\par 37 }{\i\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 National Geographic}{\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 , June 1984, p. 801.
\par 38 }{\i\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 Encyclopaedia of Animals}{\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 , Maurice-Robert Burton, C.P.B.C Publishing Ltd., p. 15.
\par 39 }{\i\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 Encyclopaedia of Animals}{\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 , Maurice-Robert Burton, C.P.B.C Publishing Ltd., p. 199.
\par 40 }{\i\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 Encyclopaedia of Animals}{\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 , Maurice-Robert Burton, C.P.B.C Publishing Ltd.
\par 41 }{\i\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 New Scientist,}{\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949  November 4, 1995, p. 29.
\par 42 Bert H\'f6lldobler-Edward O.Wilson, }{\i\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 Journey to The Ants}{\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 , Harvard University Press, Cambridge, 1994, p. 6.
\par 43 }{\i\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 Science}{\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 , Vol.263, 18 March 1994.
\par 44 Bert H\'f6lldobler-Edward O.Wilson, }{\i\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 The Ants,}{\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949  Harvard University Press, 1990, p. 512.
\par 45 Bert H\'f6lldobler-Edward O.Wilson, }{\i\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 The Ants}{\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 , Harvard University Press, 1990, p. 204.
\par 46 Bert H\'f6lldobler-Edward O.Wilson, }{\i\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 The Ants}{\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 , Harvard University Press, 1990, p. 204
\par 47 Bert H\'f6lldobler-Edward O.Wilson, }{\i\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 The Ants}{\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 , Harvard University Press, 1990, p. 486-487.
\par 48 Bert H\'f6lldobler-Edward O.Wilson, }{\i\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 The Ants}{\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 , Harvard University Press, 1990, p. 489.
\par 49 }{\i\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 Ecology}{\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 , Michael Scott, Oxford University Press, New York, 1995, p. 33.
\par 50 Bert H\'f6lldobler-Edward O.Wilson, }{\i\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 The Ants}{\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 , Harvard University Press, 1990, p. 497-498.
\par 51 Bert H\'f6lldobler-Edward O.Wilson, }{\i\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 The Ants}{\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 , Harvard University Press, 1990, p. 500.
\par 52 Bert H\'f6lldobler-Edward O.Wilson, }{\i\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 The Ants}{\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 , Harvard University Press, 1990, p. 500
\par 53 Bert H\'f6lldobler-Edward O.Wilson, }{\i\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 The Ants}{\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 , Harvard University Press, 1990, p. 504.
\par 54 Bert H\'f6lldobler-Edward O.Wilson, }{\i\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 The Ants}{\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 , Harvard University Press, 1990, p. 507.
\par 55 Bert H\'f6lldobler-Edward O.Wilson, }{\i\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 The Ants}{\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 , Harvard University Press, 1990, p. 507
\par 56 Bert H\'f6lldobler-Edward O.Wilson, }{\i\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 The Ants}{\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 , Harvard University Press, 1990, p. 506.
\par 57 Bert H\'f6lldobler-Edward O.Wilson, }{\i\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 The Ants}{\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 , Harvard University Press, 1990, p. 493.
\par 58 }{\i\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 Natural History}{\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 , 1/94, Gregory Paulson and Roger D.Akre.
\par 59 Bert H\'f6lldobler-Edward O.Wilson, }{\i\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 The Ants}{\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 , Harvard University Press, 1990, p. 522-523.
\par 60 Bert H\'f6lldobler-Edward O.Wilson, }{\i\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 The Ants}{\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 , Harvard University Press, 1990, p. 530.
\par 61 Bert H\'f6lldobler-Edward O.Wilson, }{\i\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 The Ants}{\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 , Harvard University Press, 1990, p. 548.
\par 62 Bert H\'f6lldobler-Edward O.Wilson, }{\i\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 The Ants}{\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 , Harvard University Press, 1990, p. 531.
\par 63 }{\i\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 National Geographic Documentary}{\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
\par 64 Bert H\'f6lldobler-Edward O.Wilson, }{\i\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 The Ants}{\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 , Harvard University Press, 1990, p. 532
\par 65 Bert H\'f6lldobler-Edward O.Wilson, }{\i\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 The Ants}{\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 , Harvard University Press, 1990, p. 534-535
\par 66 }{\i\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 Geo Magazine}{\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 , October 1995, p. 186
\par 67 Bert H\'f6lldobler-Edward O.Wilson, }{\i\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 The Ants}{\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 , Harvard University Press, 1990, p. 549
\par 68 }{\i\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 Natural History}{\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 , 10/93, p. 4-8
\par 69 }{\i\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 Natural History}{\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 , 10/93, p. 6
\par 70 Bert H\'f6lldobler-Edward O.Wilson, }{\i\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 The Ants}{\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 , Harvard University Press, 1990, p. 547
\par 71 Bert H\'f6lldobler-Edward O.Wilson, }{\i\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 The Ants}{\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 , Harvard University Press, 1990, p. 535
\par 72 Bert H\'f6lldobler-Edward O.Wilson, }{\i\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 Journey to The Ants}{\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 , Harvard University Press, Cambridge, 1994, p. 70
\par 73 Bert H\'f6lldobler-Edward O.Wilson, }{\i\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 The Ants}{\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 , Harvard University Press, 1990, p. 71
\par 74 Bert H\'f6lldobler-Edward O.Wilson, }{\i\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 The Ants}{\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 , Harvard University Press, 1990, p. 67
\par 75 }{\i\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 Venomous Animals of the World}{\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 , by Roger Caras, p. 84
\par 76 Bert H\'f6lldobler-Edward O.Wilson, }{\i\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 The Ants}{\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 , Harvard University Press, 1990, p. 284
\par 77 Bert H\'f6lldobler-Edward O.Wilson, }{\i\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 The Ants}{\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 , Harvard University Press, 1990, p. 185-186
\par 78 }{\i\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 National Geographic}{\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 , June 1984, p. 790-791
\par 79 Bert H\'f6lldobler-Edward O.Wilson, }{\i\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 Journey to The Ants,}{\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949  Harvard University Press, Cambridge, 1994, p. 30
\par 80 Bert H\'f6lldobler-Edward O.Wilson, }{\i\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 The Ants}{\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 , Harvard University Press, 1990, p. 374
\par 81 Bert H\'f6lldobler-Edward O.Wilson, }{\i\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 Journey to The Ants}{\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 , Harvard University Press, Cambridge, 1994, p. 195.

\par 82 }{\i\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 The Insects}{\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 , by Peter Farb and the Editors of Time-Life Books, p. 170.
\par 83 }{\i\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 The Origin of Species}{\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 , Charles Darwin, London: Senate Press, 1995, p. 273.
\par 84 Bert H\'f6lldobler-Edward O.Wilson, }{\i\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 The Ants}{\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 , Harvard University Press, 1990, p. 292
\par 85 Bert H\'f6lldobler-Edward O.Wilson, }{\i\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 The Ants}{\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 , Harvard University Press, 1990, p. 265.
\par 86 }{\i\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 Discover}{\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 , January 1994, p. 63.
\par 87 Bert H\'f6lldobler-Edward O.Wilson, }{\i\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 The Ants}{\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 , Harvard University Press, 1990, p. 563
\par 88 Science, Volume.262, 22 Oct 1993.
\par 89 Bert H\'f6lldobler-Edward O.Wilson, }{\i\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 The Ants}{\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 , Harvard University Press, 1990, p. 565
\par 90. Charles Darwin, }{\i\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 The Origin of Species: By Means of Natural Selection or the Preservation of Favoured Races in the Struggle for Life, }{
\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 London: Senate Press, 1995, p. 134. 
\par 91. Derek A. Ager. "The Nature of the Fossil Record." }{\i\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 Proceedings of the British Geological Association}{\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
, vol. 87, no. 2, (1976), p. 133. 
\par 92. T.N. George, "Fossils in Evolutionary Perspective", }{\i\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 Science Progress}{\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 , vol.48, (January 1960), p.1-3
\par 93. Richard Monestarsky, Mysteries of the Orient, }{\i\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 Discover}{\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 , April 1993, p.40. 
\par 94. Stefan Bengston, }{\i\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 Nature}{\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949  345:765 (1990). 
\par 95. Earnest A. Hooton, }{\i\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 Up From The Ape}{\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 , New York: McMillan, 1931, p.332. 
\par 96. Stephen Jay Gould, Smith Woodward's Folly, }{\i\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 New Scientist}{\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 , 5 April, 1979, p. 44.
\par 97. Charles E. Oxnard, The Place of Australopithecines in Human Evolution: Grounds for Doubt, }{\i\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 Nature}{\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
, No. 258, p. 389.
\par 98. Richard Leakey, }{\i\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 The Making of Mankind, }{\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 London: Sphere Books, 1981, p. 116
\par 99. Eric Trinkaus, Hard Times Among the Neanderthals, }{\i\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 Natural History}{\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
, No. 87, December 1978, p. 10, R.L. Holoway, "The Neanderthal Brain: What was Primitive?", American Journal of Physical Anthrophology Supplement, No. 12, 1991, p. 94
\par 100. Ali Demirsoy, }{\i\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 Kalitim ve Evrim}{\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949  (Inheritance and Evolution), Ankara: Meteksan Yayinlari 1984, p. 61
\par 101. Ali Demirsoy, }{\i\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 Kalitim ve Evrim}{\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949  (Inheritance and Evolution), Ankara: Meteksan Yayinlari 1984, p. 61
\par 102. }{\i\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 Fabbri Britannica Science Encyclopaedia}{\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 , Vol. 2, No. 22, p. 519
\par 103. Kevin McKean, }{\i\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 Bilim ve Teknik}{\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 , No. 189, p. 7
\par 104. Frank B. Salisbury, "Doubts about the Modern Synthetic Theory of Evolution", }{\i\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 American Biology Teacher}{\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
, September 1971, p. 336.
\par 105. Ali Demirsoy, }{\i\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 Kalitim ve Evrim}{\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949  (Inheritance and Evolution), Ankara: Meteksan Publishing Co., 1984, p. 39.

\par 106. Homer Jacobson, "Information, Reproduction and the Origin of Life", }{\i\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 American Scientist}{\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 , January, 1955, p.121.

\par }{\fs18\lang1031\langfe1055\langnp1031\insrsid294782\charrsid2436030 107. Reinhard Junker & Siegfried Scherer, "Entstehung Gesiche Der Lebewesen", Weyel, 1986, p. 89.
\par }{\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 108. Michael J. Behe, }{\i\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 Darwin's Black Box}{\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
, New York: Free Press, 1996, pp. 232-233.
\par }\pard\plain \s17\qj \li227\ri113\sb113\sa113\sl-280\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin113\lin227\itap0 \b\f8\fs18\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9502810 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs24\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid294782\charrsid9585949 
\par 
\par  
\par  
\par }}