{\rtf1\adeflang1025\ansi\ansicpg1254\uc1\adeff0\deff0\stshfdbch0\stshfloch8\stshfhich8\stshfbi0\deflang1055\deflangfe1055{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset162\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f8\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02040503060506020304}New York{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f180\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Times New Roman;}{\f178\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f179\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f181\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}
{\f183\fbidi \froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f184\fbidi \froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f185\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f186\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;
\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs20\alang1025 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f8\fs24\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}{\*
\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs20 \ltrch\fcs0 \f8\fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\sb85\sa57\sl-240\slmult0
\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs20\alang1025 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f8\fs18\expnd1\expndtw5\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 \sbasedon0 \snext15 yeniarabaslik;}{\s16\qj \li283\ri0\sl-240\slmult0
\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin283\itap0 \rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs20\alang1025 \ltrch\fcs0 \f8\fs16\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 \sbasedon0 \snext16 metin;}{\s17\qc \li0\ri0\sl-180\slmult0
\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs20\alang1025 \ltrch\fcs0 \f8\fs10\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 \sbasedon0 \snext17 yeniresimalti;}{\*\cs18 \additive \rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 
\ul\cf2 \sbasedon10 \styrsid7429715 Hyperlink;}}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid2035062\rsid2190775\rsid3628156\rsid4013956\rsid4025415\rsid7429715\rsid7935488\rsid14515536\rsid14878924}{\*\generator Microsoft Word 10.0.2627;}{\info
{\title THE COLLAPSE OF THE THEORY OF EVOLUTION IN 50 THEMES}{\author HARUN YAHYA}{\operator AA}{\creatim\yr2007\mo3\dy19\hr23\min44}{\revtim\yr2007\mo3\dy19\hr23\min44}{\version2}{\edmins0}{\nofpages27}{\nofwords9667}{\nofchars55106}{\nofcharsws64644}
{\vern16437}}\margl1080\margr1080\ltrsect \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\ftnrstpg\hyphhotz0\sprstsp\otblrul\brkfrm\sprstsm\truncex\nolead\msmcap\lytprtmet\hyphcaps0\horzdoc\dghspace120\dgvspace120\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow0\dgvshow0
\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\bdrrlswsix\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\rsidroot7935488 \fet0\ltrpar \sectd \ltrsect\pgnrestart\linex0\headery708\footery708\colsx708\endnhere\sectdefaultcl\sftnbj\sftnrstpg {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnqc\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang 
{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnqc\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnqc\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnqc\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5
\pndec\pnqc\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnqc\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnqc\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8
\pnlcltr\pnqc\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnqc\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \ltrpar\s16\qc \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0
\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid7429715 \rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs20\alang1025 \ltrch\fcs0 \f8\fs16\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs22\insrsid7429715 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\s16\qc \fi567\li0\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid7429715 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs72 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs72\insrsid7429715\charrsid7429715 THE COLLAPSE
\par OF THE THEORY
\par OF EVOLUTION IN
\par 50 THEMES}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs72 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs72\insrsid7429715\charrsid7429715 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\s16\qc \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid7429715 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid7429715 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid7429715\charrsid2190775 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs22\insrsid7429715\charrsid2190775 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\s16\qc \fi567\li0\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid7429715 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs52 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs52\insrsid7429715\charrsid7429715 HARUN YAHYA
\par }\pard \ltrpar\s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid7429715 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs22\insrsid7429715 \page 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\s16\qc \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid7429715 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs22\insrsid7429715 
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs22\insrsid7429715\charrsid2190775 August, 2006}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid7429715\charrsid2190775 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \ltrpar\qc \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid7429715 \rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs20\alang1025 \ltrch\fcs0 \f8\fs24\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\rtlch\fcs1 
\af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid7429715\charrsid2190775 Published by}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\ul\insrsid7429715\charrsid2190775 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs22\insrsid7429715\charrsid2190775 GLOBALPUBLISHING
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid7429715\charrsid2190775 Talatpasa Mah. Emirgazi Caddesi
\par Ibrahim Elmas Ismerkezi
\par A Blok Kat 4}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid7429715  }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid7429715\charrsid2190775 Okmeydani - Istanbul/Turkey
\par Phone: +90 212 222 00 88
\par 
\par By Harun Yahya
\par 
\par Translated by Carl Nino Rossini
\par Edited by Timothy Mossman
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\ul\insrsid7429715\charrsid2190775 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li567\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin567\itap0\pararsid7429715 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid7429715\charrsid2190775 All translations from the Qur'an are from }{
\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f0\fs22\insrsid7429715\charrsid2190775 The Noble Qur'an: a New Rendering of Its Meaning in English}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid7429715\charrsid2190775 
 by Hajj Abdalhaqq and Aisha Bewley, published by Bookwork, Norwich, UK. 1420 CE/1999 AH.
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid7429715 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid7429715\charrsid2190775 
\par Abbreviations used:
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f0\fs22\insrsid7429715\charrsid2190775 (saws-sall-Allahu 'alyahi wa sallam)}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid7429715\charrsid2190775 : May Allah bless him and
\par grant him peace (following a reference to Prophet Muhammad)
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f0\fs22\insrsid7429715\charrsid2190775 (as-'alayhi's-salam)}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid7429715\charrsid2190775 : Peace be upon him (following a}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f0\fs22\insrsid7429715  }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid7429715\charrsid2190775 reference to the prophets)
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid2190775 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs22\insrsid2190775\charrsid2190775 
\par }\pard\plain \ltrpar\s15\qc \fi567\li0\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid4025415 \rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs20\alang1025 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f8\fs18\expnd1\expndtw5\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {
\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs36 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs36\insrsid7429715 \page }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs36 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs36\insrsid2190775\charrsid4025415 ABOUT THE AUTHOR}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs36 \ltrch\fcs0 \b0\f0\fs36\expnd0\expndtw0\insrsid2190775\charrsid4025415 

\par }\pard \ltrpar\s15\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid2190775 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \b0\f0\fs22\expnd0\expndtw0\insrsid2190775 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \b0\f0\fs22\expnd0\expndtw0\insrsid4025415\charrsid2190775 
\par }\pard\plain \ltrpar\s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid2190775 \rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs20\alang1025 \ltrch\fcs0 \f8\fs16\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {
\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2190775\charrsid2190775 N
ow writing under the pen-name of HARUN YAHYA, he was born in Ankara in 1956. Having completed his primary and secondary education in Ankara, he studied arts at Istanbul's Mimar Sinan University and philosophy at Istanbul University. Since the 1980s, he ha
s
 published many books on political, scientific, and faith-related issues. Harun Yahya is well-known as the author of important works disclosing the imposture of evolutionists, their invalid claims, and the dark liaisons between Darwinism and such bloody i
deologies as fascism and communism. 
\par Harun Yahya's works, translated into 57 different languages, constitute a collection for a total of more than 45,000 pages with 30,000 illustrations.
\par His pen-name is a composite of the names Harun (Aaron) and Yahya (John
), in memory of the two esteemed prophets who fought against their people's lack of faith. The Prophet's seal on his books' covers is symbolic and is linked to their contents. It represents the Qur'an (the Final Scripture) and Prophet Muhammad (may God bl
e
ss him and grant him peace), last of the prophets. Under the guidance of the Qur'an and the Sunnah (teachings of the Prophet), the author makes it his purpose to disprove each fundamental tenet of irreligious ideologies and to have the "last word," so as 
to completely silence the objections raised against religion. He uses the seal of the final Prophet (may God bless him and grant him peace), who attained ultimate wisdom and moral perfection, as a sign of his intention to offer the last word. 
\par All of Harun 
Yahya's works share one single goal: to convey the Qur'an's message, encourage readers to consider basic faith-related issues such as God's existence and unity and the Hereafter; and to expose irreligious systems' feeble foundations and perverted ideologi
es. 
\par Harun Yahya enjoys a wide readership in many countries, from India to America, England to Indonesia, Poland to Bosnia, Spain to Brazil, Malaysia to Italy, France to Bulgaria and Russia. Some of his books are available in English, French, German, Spanis
h, Italian, Portuguese, Urdu, Arabic, Albanian, Chinese, Swahili, Hausa, Dhivehi (spoken in Mauritius), Russian, Serbo-Croat (Bosnian), Polish, Malay, Uygur Turkish, Indonesian, Bengali, Danish and Swedish. 
\par Greatly appreciated all around the world, these 
works have been instrumental in many people recovering faith in God and gaining deeper insights into their faith. His books' wisdom and sincerity, together with a distinct style that's easy to understand, directly affect anyone who reads them. Those who s
e
riously consider these books, can no longer advocate atheism or any other perverted ideology or materialistic philosophy, since these books are characterized by rapid effectiveness, definite results, and irrefutability. Even if they continue to do so, it 
will be only a sentimental insistence, since these books refute such ideologies from their very foundations. All contemporary movements of denial are now ideologically defeated, thanks to the books written by Harun Yahya. 
\par This is no doubt a result of the Qur'an's wisdom and lucidity. The author modestly intends to serve as a means in humanity's search for God's right path. No material gain is sought in the publication of these works.
\par Those who encourage others to read these books, to open their minds and hearts and guide them to become more devoted servants of God, render an invaluable service. 
\par Meanwhile, it would only be a waste of time and energy to propagate other books that create confusion in people's minds, lead them into ideological chaos, and that c
learly have no strong and precise effects in removing the doubts in people's hearts, as also verified from previous experience. It is impossible for books devised to emphasize the author's literary power rather than the noble goal of saving people from lo
s
s of faith, to have such a great effect. Those who doubt this can readily see that the sole aim of Harun Yahya's books is to overcome disbelief and to disseminate the Qur'an's moral values. The success and impact of this service are manifested in the read
ers' conviction. 
\par One point should be kept in mind: The main reason for the continuing cruelty, conflict, and other ordeals endured by the vast majority of people is the ideological prevalence of disbelief. This can be ended only with the ideological defeat
 of disbelief and by conveying the wonders of creation and Qur'anic morality so that people can live by it. Considering the state of the world today, leading into a downward spiral of violence, corruption and conflict, clearly this service must be provide
d speedily and effectively, or it may be too late. 
\par In this effort, the books of Harun Yahya assume a leading role. By the will of God, these books will be a means through which people in the twenty-first century will attain the peace, justice, and happiness promised in the Qur'an.
\par 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \ltrpar\s15\qc \fi567\li0\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid4025415 \rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs20\alang1025 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f8\fs18\expnd1\expndtw5\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {
\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs36 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs36\insrsid4025415 \page }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs36 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs36\insrsid2190775\charrsid4025415 TO THE READER
\par }\pard\plain \ltrpar\s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid2190775 \rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs20\alang1025 \ltrch\fcs0 \f8\fs16\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {
\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid4025415 
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2190775\charrsid2190775 
A special chapter is assigned to the collapse of the theory of evolution because this theory constitutes the basis of all anti-spiritual philosophies. Since Darwinism rejects the fact of creation\emdash and therefore, God's existence\emdash 
over the last 140 years it has caused many people to abandon their faith or fall into doubt. It is therefore an imperative service, a very important duty to show everyone that this theory is a deception. Since some readers may find the chan
ce to read only one of our books, we think it appropriate to devote a chapter to summarize this subject. 
\par All the author's books explain faith-related issues in light of Qur'anic verses, and invite readers to learn God's words and to live by them. All the 
subjects concerning God's verses are explained so as to leave no doubt or room for questions in the reader's mind. The books' sincere, plain, and fluent style ensures that everyone of every age and from every social group can easily understand them. Thank
s to their effective, lucid narrative, they can be read at one sitting. Even those who rigorously reject spirituality are influenced by the facts these books document and cannot refute the truthfulness of their contents. 
\par This and all the other books by the author can be read individually, or discussed in a group. Readers eager to profit from the books will find discussion very useful, letting them relate their reflections and experiences to one another. 
\par In addition, it will be a great service to Islam to c
ontribute to the publication and reading of these books, written solely for the pleasure of God. The author's books are all extremely convincing. For this reason, to communicate true religion to others, one of the most effective methods is encouraging the
m to read these books.
\par We hope the reader will look through the reviews of his other books at the back of this book. His rich source material on faith-related issues is very useful, and a pleasure to read. 
\par In these books, unlike some other books, you will 
not find the author's personal views, explanations based on dubious sources, styles that are unobservant of the respect and reverence due to sacred subjects, nor hopeless, pessimistic arguments that create doubts in the mind and deviations in the heart. 

\par 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \ltrpar\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid2190775 \rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs20\alang1025 \ltrch\fcs0 \f8\fs24\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\rtlch\fcs1 
\af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2190775\charrsid2190775 
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs22\insrsid2190775\charrsid2190775 
\par }\pard\plain \ltrpar\s15\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid7429715 \rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs20\alang1025 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f8\fs18\expnd1\expndtw5\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {
\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs32\expnd0\expndtw0\insrsid7429715 \page }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs36 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs36\expnd0\expndtw0\insrsid2190775\charrsid7429715 INTRODUCTION}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs36 \ltrch\fcs0 
\b0\f0\fs36\expnd0\expndtw0\insrsid2190775\charrsid7429715 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\s15\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid2190775 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \b0\f0\fs22\expnd0\expndtw0\insrsid2190775 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \b0\f0\fs22\expnd0\expndtw0\insrsid7429715\charrsid2190775 
\par }\pard\plain \ltrpar\s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid2190775 \rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs20\alang1025 \ltrch\fcs0 \f8\fs16\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {
\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2190775\charrsid2190775 For the last 150 years, the theory of evolution has been portrayed everywhere\emdash from school textbooks to scholarly publications\emdash 
as scientific fact. But it actually stands on highly unsound foundations. Every claim that evolutionists have 
made over the last 150 years has later been refuted by science. Evolutionists have finally abandoned trying to prove their theory and instead, have begun looking for ways to prop it up by such methods as propaganda, demagogy, and outright deception. Their
 aim is no longer to defend a scientific theory, but rather to persist in promoting this nonsense which is supposed to be scientific so as to maintain their materialist, atheistic world views. 
\par In this book, the theory of evolution\rquote s basic claims are refuted with scientific evidence. It demonstrates, using concrete examples with which you will be quite familiar, why it is impossible for new species to emerge through evolution. By God
\rquote s leave, a knowledge of the information contained here will be enough to let you refute evolutionist claims and provide the needed rational, scientific replies to any evolutionist anywhere in the world.
\par Should you ever want to obtain more detailed information on this subject, you can consult such works as T}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f0\fs22\insrsid2190775\charrsid2190775 he Evolution Deceit, The Evolution Impasse}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 
\ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2190775\charrsid2190775  (encyclopaedic format; in two volumes), }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f0\fs22\insrsid2190775\charrsid2190775 A Definitive Reply to Evolutionist Propaganda}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f0\fs22\insrsid2190775\charrsid2190775 , }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f0\fs22\insrsid2190775\charrsid2190775 Darwinism Refuted, }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2190775\charrsid2190775 
which all together consist of thousands of pages. You can also find the author\rquote s more than 150 books in English by logging on to }{\field{\*\fldinst {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid7429715  HYPERLINK "http://}{\rtlch\fcs1 
\af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid7429715\charrsid2190775 www.harunyahya.com}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid7429715 " }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid7429715\charrsid12411554 {\*\datafield 
00d0c9ea79f9bace118c8200aa004ba90b0200000017000000130000007700770077002e0068006100720075006e00790061006800790061002e0063006f006d000000e0c9ea79f9bace118c8200aa004ba90b3600000068007400740070003a002f002f007700770077002e0068006100720075006e007900610068007900
61002e0063006f006d002f000000}}}{\fldrslt {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \cs18\f0\fs22\ul\cf2\insrsid7429715\charrsid12411554 www.harunyahya.com}}}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2190775\charrsid2190775 . }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 
\ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid7429715 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid7429715 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2190775\charrsid2190775 \page }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 
\b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2190775\charrsid7429715 The Theory of Evolution Regards }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid7429715 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2190775\charrsid7429715 Chance as a Creative Deity
\par }\pard \ltrpar\s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid2190775 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid7429715 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2190775\charrsid2190775 The theory of evolution claims that unconscious, unreasoning, inanimate atoms such as phosphorus and carbon assembled themselves to
gether by chance. As a result of such natural phenomena as lightning, volcanic eruptions, ultraviolet rays and radiation, these atoms organized themselves in such a flawless way as to give rise to proteins, cells\emdash 
and thereafter, fish, rabbits, lions, birds, human beings and all manner of life forms. 
\par That is the basic claim made by the theory of evolution, which regards chance as a creative deity. However, belief in any such claim is a violation of reason, logic and science.}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid7429715 
\par 
\par 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid7429715 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2190775\charrsid7429715 Natural Selection Cannot Account for }{
\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid7429715\charrsid7429715 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2190775\charrsid7429715 the Complex Structures in Living Things
\par }\pard \ltrpar\s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid2190775 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid7429715 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2190775\charrsid2190775 
The theory of evolution maintains that those living organisms that best adapt to their environment have more opportunities to survive and multiply, and therefore, they can pass on their advantageous characte
ristics to subsequent generations, and species evolve by way of this \'93mechanism.\'94 
\par But the fact is that the mechanism in question\emdash known as natural selection\emdash cannot cause living things to evolve, nor endow them with any new features. It can only reinforce existing characteristics belonging to a particular species. 
\par In any given region, for example, those rabbits able to run fastest will survive, while others die. After a few generations, all the rabbits in this region will consist of fast-running individuals
. However, these rabbits can never evolve into another species\emdash greyhounds or foxes, for instance. }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid7429715 
\par 
\par 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid7429715 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2190775\charrsid7429715 Peppered Moths Are No Evidence for }{
\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2035062 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2190775\charrsid7429715 Evolution through Natural Selection
\par }\pard \ltrpar\s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid2190775 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid7429715 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2190775\charrsid2190775 Of all the supposed \'93proofs\'94 of the theory of evolution, the most frequently repea
ted concerns changes in a species of moth in 19th century Britain. It is claimed that due to air pollution during the Industrial Revolution, tree bark was darkened\emdash 
for which reason dark- colored moths were better camouflaged from predatory birds, and thus their numbers increased. 
\par But this is not evolution, because no new species of moth emerged. All that happened was that the ratio ratio of the two already existing types in an already existing species changed. In addition, it has since emerged that the acc
ount on which this claim was based was untrue. The well-known photos showing moths clinging to the bark of trees were found to be fabrications. Contrary to what has been claimed, no instance of so-called \'93industrial melanism\'94\emdash 
the darkening of color due to industrial pollution\emdash has ever taken place. 
\par }\pard\plain \ltrpar\s15\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid2190775 \rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs20\alang1025 \ltrch\fcs0 
\b\f8\fs18\expnd1\expndtw5\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid7429715 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \ltrpar\s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid7429715 \rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs20\alang1025 \ltrch\fcs0 \f8\fs16\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 
\ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid7429715 \page }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2190775\charrsid7429715 Just as an Earthquake Cannot Improve a City, Neither }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 
\b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2035062 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2190775\charrsid7429715 Are Mutations Advantageous to Develop Living Things
\par }\pard \ltrpar\s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid2190775 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid7429715 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2190775\charrsid2190775 Mutations are caused by random changes in the DNA in which all the information concerning the human body\rquote 
s characteristics is encoded. Mutations occur due to outside agents such as radiation or chemicals. Evolutionists maintain that such random genetic changes can cause living things to evolve. The fact is, though, that mutations are always harmful to livi
ng things, do not develop them, and can never endow them with any new functional features (such as wings or lungs, for instance). Mutations either kill or deform the afflicted organism. To claim that mutations improve a species and endow it with new advan
tages is like claiming that an earthquake can make a city more advanced and modern, or that striking a computer with a hammer will result in a more advanced model. Indeed, no mutation has ever been observed to increase\emdash much less improve\emdash 
genetic information. 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2190775 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2035062\charrsid2190775 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid7429715 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2190775\charrsid7429715 Life Comes From Life
\par }\pard \ltrpar\s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid2190775 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2035062 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2190775\charrsid2190775 The erroneous theory known as \'93spontaneous generation,\'94
 which had been around since at least the Middle Ages, maintained that inanimate substances could by chance assamble to produce a living being. The idea that insects formed fr
om food wastes or mice from wheat was widespread up, until the 18th century. Even in the 19th century, when Darwin wrote his book }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f0\fs22\insrsid2190775\charrsid2190775 The Origin of Species}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 
\ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2190775\charrsid2190775 , the scientific world still widely believed that bacteria could arise from inanimate matter. 
\par In fact, however,}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2190775  }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2190775\charrsid2190775 
only five years after Darwin published his book, Louis Pasteur announced his results after long studies and experiments, that disproved spontaneous generation, a cornerstone of Darwin's theory. In his triumphal lecture at the Sorbonne in 1864, Past
eur said: "Never will the doctrine of spontaneous generation recover from the mortal blow struck by this simple experiment." (Sidney Fox, Klaus Dose, }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f0\fs22\insrsid2190775\charrsid2190775 
Molecular Evolution and The Origin of Life}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2190775\charrsid2190775 , New York: Marcel Dekker, 1977. p. 2)
\par His findings revealed, once again, that life did not emerge spontaneously on Earth, but that it began with a miraculous creation. 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2190775 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2035062\charrsid2190775 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid7429715 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2190775\charrsid7429715 No Transitional Forms Have Ever Been }{
\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2035062 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2190775\charrsid7429715 Found in the Fossil Record
\par }\pard \ltrpar\s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid2190775 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2035062 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2190775\charrsid2190775 The theory of evolution claims that the transition from one species to another takes place from the primitive (simple) to the more complex\emdash 
progressively, and in stages. According to this claim, bizarre, monstrous creatures known as \'93transitional forms\'94 must have existed during this progress from one species to another. For example, ther
e must have existed half-fish and half-amphibian creatures that, despite still having fish characteristics, had also acquired some amphibious ones, as well as half-human, half-ape creatures, and half-reptile, half-bird life forms. 
\par If any such transitional
 species had really existed, then their remains should be encountered in the fossil record. But in over a century, there is still not the slightest trace of such intermediate forms that paleontologists have searched for with such great eagerness. 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2190775 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2035062\charrsid2190775 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid7429715 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2190775\charrsid7429715 Living Groups Emerged Abruptly }{
\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2035062 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2190775\charrsid7429715 on Earth and at the Same Time
\par }\pard \ltrpar\s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid2190775 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2035062 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2190775\charrsid2190775 
Almost all the basic living categories known today emerged suddenly and at the same time, during the Cambrian Period, 530 to 520 million years ago. Living organisms with totally different bodily structures\emdash sponges, mollusks, worms, }{\rtlch\fcs1 
\af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f0\fs22\insrsid2190775\charrsid2190775 Echinodermata}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2190775\charrsid2190775 , arthropods and vertebrates\emdash 
all appeared suddenly, simultaneously, with no life forms remotely resembling them in any earlier geological period. This fact alone completely undermines evolutionists\rquote  claims that
 living things evolved from a single common ancestor gradually, and over a very long period of time.
\par The fact that the Earth was suddenly filled with a great many species, all possessing radically different physical structures and exceedingly complex organ
s demonstrates that these were, of course, created. Since evolutionists deny creation and the existence of God, they cannot definitely explain this miraculous phenomenon.}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid7429715 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid7429715 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2035062 
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2190775\charrsid7429715 Species Living Today Have Undergone }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2035062 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2190775\charrsid7429715 No Changes over Hundreds of Millions of Years
\par }\pard \ltrpar\s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid2190775 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2035062 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2190775\charrsid2190775 Had evolution actually taken place, then living things must have emerged on Earth as a result of small, gradual changes\emdash 
and to have continued changing over the course of time. Yet the fossil records demonstrate the exact opposite! Different classes of liv
ing creatures emerged suddenly, with no ancestors even remotely resembling them, and remained in a stable state, undergoing no changes at all, often for hundreds of millions of years.
\par }\pard \ltrpar\s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid7429715 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2190775 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2035062\charrsid7429715 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2190775\charrsid7429715 Fish that Ruined Evolutionists\rquote  Dreams:C\'9clecanth
\par }\pard \ltrpar\s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid2190775 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2035062 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2190775\charrsid2190775 Evolutionists used to depict the C\'9c
lecanth, a fish known only from fossils dating back 400 million years, as very powerful evidence of a transitional form between fish and amphibians. Since it was assumed that this species had become extinct 70 million years ago, evolutionist
s engaged in all kinds of speculation regarding the fossils. On 22 December 1938, however, a living C\'9clecanth was caught in the deep waters of the Indian Ocean. More than 200 other living specimens have been caught in the years that followed.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\expnd-1\expndtw-5\insrsid2190775\charrsid2190775 All the speculation regarding these fish had been unfounded. Contrary to what evolutionists claimed, the C\'9c
lecanth was not a vertebrate with half-fish, half-amphibian characteristics preparing to emerge onto dry land. It was in fact a bottom-dwelling fish that almost n
ever rose above a depth of 180 meters (590 feet). Moreover, there were no anatomical differences between the living C\'9clecanth and the 400-million-year-old fossil specimens. This creature had never \'93evolved\'94 at all. 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2190775 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2035062\charrsid2190775 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid7429715 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2190775\charrsid7429715 Birds\rquote 
 Wings Cannot Be the Work of Chance
\par }\pard \ltrpar\s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid2190775 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2035062 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2190775\charrsid2190775 Evolutionists maintain that birds evolved from reptiles\emdash though this is impossible, and a bird\rquote 
s wing alone is sufficient to prove this. In order for evolution of the kind claimed to have taken place, a reptile\rquote s forearms would have to have changed into functional wings as the result of mutations taking place in its genes\emdash 
and quickly! And this is not feasible. First of all, this transitional life form would be unable to fly with only half-developed wings. It would also be deprived of its forearms. That would mean it was essentially deformed and therefore\emdash 
according to the theory of evolution\emdash would be eliminated. 
\par In order for any bird to fly, its wings had to be fully formed in every detail. The wings should be soundly attached to the chest cavity. The bi
rd would need to have a light skeletal structure allowing it to take off, maintain its balance in the air and move in all directions. Its wing and tail feathers would have to be light, flexible and in aerodynamic proportion to one another. In short, every
thing would have to operate with a flawless coordination in order to make flight possible. How could this inerrant structure in birds\rquote  bodies have resulted from a succession of random mutations? That question has no answer. 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2190775 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2035062\charrsid2190775 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid7429715 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2190775\charrsid7429715 Archaeopteryx Is Not the Missing }{
\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2035062 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2190775\charrsid7429715 Link between Reptiles and Birds
\par }\pard \ltrpar\s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid2190775 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2035062 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2190775\charrsid2190775 Ever since the 19th century, evolutionists have portrayed the 150-million-year old fossil known as }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f0\fs22\insrsid2190775\charrsid2190775 
Archaeopteryx}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2190775\charrsid2190775  as the greatest fossil evidence for the theory of evolution. They claimed that the fossil has a number of reptilian features that make it a \'93missing link\'94
 between reptiles and birds. Recent findings have invalidated this claim, however, by revealing that }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f0\fs22\insrsid2190775\charrsid2190775 Archaeopteryx}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f0\fs22\insrsid2190775\charrsid2190775  was a fully-fledged flying bird. In addition, the therapod dinosaurs formerly regarded as the supposed reptilian ancestors of birds are in fact much younger than }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 
\i\f0\fs22\insrsid2190775\charrsid2190775 Archaeopteryx}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2190775\charrsid2190775 \emdash an inconvenient fact that evolutionists attempt to conceal.}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f0\fs22\insrsid2190775 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2035062 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2035062\charrsid2190775 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid7429715 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2190775\charrsid7429715 The Fossil Record Refutes the Famous }{
\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2035062 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2190775\charrsid7429715 \'93Equine Evolution\'94 Scenario 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid2190775 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2035062 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2190775\charrsid2190775 For decades now, the \'93evolution\'94 of the hor
se has been presented as one of the best- documented proofs of the theory of evolution. Four-footed mammals that lived in different periods have been arranged in an arbitrary order from small to large, and this \'93horse series\'94
 displayed in the American Museum of Natural History in New York City. The fact is, however, that recent research in years has revealed that the extinct species in the horse series were not one another\rquote 
s ancestors. The sequence is highly inaccurate, and that the smaller quadrupeds depicted as the ancestor of the horse actually appeared on Earth long afterwards. 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2190775 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2035062\charrsid2190775 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid7429715 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2190775\charrsid7429715 Evolutionists\rquote  Ape-Man Stories }{
\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2035062 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2190775\charrsid7429715 Are not Based on Any Evidence
\par }\pard \ltrpar\s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid2190775 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2035062 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2190775\charrsid2190775 The pre-eminent deception of Darwinism is that human beings evolved from ape-like creatures\emdash a claim that\rquote s been i
mposed on the popular imagination by way of countless of imaginary drawings and models. In fact, there is no evidence that such \'93ape-men\'94 ever lived. }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f0\fs22\insrsid2190775\charrsid2190775 Australopithecus}{
\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2190775\charrsid2190775 , commonly depicted as today\rquote s man\rquote s earliest ancestor, of, was in fact an extinct species of ape not so very different from chimpanzees. Classifications such as }{
\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f0\fs22\insrsid2190775\charrsid2190775 Homo erectus, Homo sapiens neandertalensis}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2190775\charrsid2190775  and }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 
\i\f0\fs22\insrsid2190775\charrsid2190775 Homo sapiens archaic}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2190775\charrsid2190775 
, which follow Australopithecus in the so-called family tree of humans, are actually different human races. The small anatomical differences between these classifications and today\rquote 
s man can also be observed among different races alive today, such as native Australians, pygmies and Inuit, or Eskimos. 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2190775 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2035062\charrsid2190775 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid7429715 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2190775\charrsid7429715 The 99% Genetic Similarity between }{
\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2035062 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2190775\charrsid7429715 Man and Chimps Is A Deception
\par }\pard \ltrpar\s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid2190775 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2035062 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2190775\charrsid2190775 F
or a very long time, the evolutionist choir has been propagating the unsubstantiated thesis that there is very little genetic difference between humans and chimps. In every piece of evolutionist literature, you could read sentences like "we are 99 percent
 
equal to chimps" or "there is only 1 percent of DNA that makes us human". Although no conclusive comparison between human and chimp genomes has been done, the Darwinist ideology led them to assume that there is very little difference between the two speci
es.
\par A recent study shows that the evolutionist propaganda on this issue-like many others-is completely false. Humans and chimps are not "99% similar" as the evolutionist fairy tale went on. Genetic similarity turns out to be less than 95 %. 
\par A biologist at 
the California Institute of Technology based this on a computer program that compared 780,000 of the 3 billion base pairs in the human DNA helix with those of the chimp. He found more mismatches than earlier researchers had, and concluded that at least 3.
9 percent of the DNA bases were different.
\par This led him to conclude that there is a fundamental genetic difference between the species of about 5 percent.(http://www.cnn.com/2002/TECH/science/09/24/humans.chimps.ap/index.html)
\par New Scientist, a leading science magazine and a strong supporter of Darwinism, reported the following on the same subject in an article titled "Human-chimp DNA difference trebled":
\par We are more unique than previously thought, according to new comparisons of human and chimpanzee DNA. It 
has long been held that we share 98.5 per cent of our genetic material with our closest relatives. That now appears to be wrong. In fact, we share less than 95 per cent of our genetic material, a three-fold increase in the variation between us and chimps.
 (http://www.newscientist.com/news/news.jsp?id=ns99992833)
\par }\pard \ltrpar\s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid7429715 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2190775\charrsid7429715 Creation, Not Evolution, Is the Origin }{
\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2035062 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2190775\charrsid7429715 of Human Consciousness
\par }\pard \ltrpar\s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid2190775 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2035062 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2190775\charrsid2190775 The theory of evolution cannot explain how human consciousness emerged. Unconscious atoms and chance cannot account for human beings w
ho found civilizations, produce works of art, establish scientific fields from medicine to archaeology, philosophize, rejoice and feel amazement, compose music, take pleasure from the arts they have created, enjoy the taste of yogurt, have friends, unders
tand such concepts as loyalty, self-sacrifice and love, feel longing, build space vehicles, invent the microscope and the light bulb\emdash 
and study the atoms that comprise their own bodies. It is impossible to account for consciousness in terms of any materialis
t philosophy that regards a human being as an assemblage of matter. By themselves, the atoms and molecules in the brain can neither feel, nor know anything, nor speak. Consciousness is an attribute of the human soul; and it is God Who bestows that soul on
 human beings. 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2190775 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2035062\charrsid2190775 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid7429715 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2190775\charrsid7429715 The Claim that Some Organs }{\rtlch\fcs1 
\af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2035062 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2190775\charrsid7429715 Are Vestigial Is Untrue
\par }\pard \ltrpar\s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid2190775 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2035062 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2190775\charrsid2190775 
Evolutionist sources have long suggested that certain organs in the human body no longer have any function and that they are not used but represent a legacy from long-dead ancestoral for
ms. The human appendix and the coccyx were for many years regarded as \'93vestigial\'94 organs. However, the latest scientific research has revealed that these organs do, in fact, serve a purpose. The list of \'93vestigial organs\'94
 that evolutionists drew up at the beginning of the 20}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\up4\insrsid2190775\charrsid2190775 th}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2190775\charrsid2190775 
 century is now completely discredited. In the same way, the concept of \'93junk DNA\'94 proposed by evolutionists\emdash the claim that a large part of the DNA chain serves no purpose\emdash has also been discredited by new discoveries. 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2190775 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2035062\charrsid2190775 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid7429715 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2190775\charrsid7429715 It Is Utterly Impossible for Proteins }{
\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2035062 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2190775\charrsid7429715 to Form by Chance
\par }\pard \ltrpar\s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid2190775 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2035062 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2190775\charrsid2190775 
It is mathematically impossible for proteins, the building blocks of life, to have formed by chance. For example, the odds of an average-sized protein molecule, which consists of 288 amino acids, emerging by chance is 1 in 10}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 
\ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\up4\insrsid2190775\charrsid2190775 300}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2190775\charrsid2190775 
. (This is an astronomical figure of 1 followed by 300 zeros.) In practical terms, it is impossible for this to happen. (In mathematics, chances smaller than 1 in 1050 are regarded as having zero probability.) The theory of evolution, which
 is unable to account for the formation of even a single protein in terms of chance, can never explain how the cell and even more complex structures came into being. 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid7429715 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2190775\charrsid7429715 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2035062 \page }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2190775\charrsid7429715 Chance Combinations of Inanimate }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 
\b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2035062 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2190775\charrsid7429715 Molecules Cannot Account for Life
\par }\pard \ltrpar\s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid2190775 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2035062 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2190775\charrsid2190775 Even if we assume 
that protein molecules did come into existence by chance, still it is impossible for life to emerge spontaneously. Thousands of further stages are needed in order to progress from a protein to a cell. Above all, any protein that happens to form by chance 
w
ill have to wait patiently for other proteins to form alongside, while not itself suffering any impairment due to ultraviolet rays or mechanical effects in its immediate environment. Then these other proteins must form in sufficient numbers and at the sam
e
 point and combine in a meaningful manner in such a way as to constitute the organelles of the cell. No foreign substance, harmful molecule or useless protein must enter the sequence. Then, these organelles have to combine in an exceptionally planned and 
o
rganized manner, attract the requisite enzymes and be covered with a membrane. And then finally, the interior of that membrane must be filled with a special fluid that provides an ideal environment for these organelles. Yet by itself, every one of these s
tages is impossible. 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2190775 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2035062\charrsid2190775 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid7429715 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2190775\charrsid7429715 Any Single Cell Is More Complex }{
\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2035062 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2190775\charrsid7429715 Than Even A Great City
\par }\pard \ltrpar\s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid2190775 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2035062 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2190775\charrsid2190775 Around 4 billion years ago, according to the evolutionist scenario, various inanimate chemical substances entered into a reaction, combining under the effects of lightning or e
arthquakes, and thus gave rise to the first cell. In fact, however, scientists describe the cell as having as complex a structure as that of a city like Paris or London. A great number of structures inside the cell, from energy-producing plants to protein
 
factories, from transport systems carrying raw materials to decoders that interpret DNA, and communications systems, are all in a constant state of activity in a flawless organization. Believing the evolutionist claim that the cell came into being by chan
ce is as illogical as claiming that all the buildings, roads, transport systems, water and electricity grids in New York City emerged spontaneously thanks to the effects of random natural phenomena such as storms and earthquakes. 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2190775 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2035062\charrsid2190775 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid7429715 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2190775\charrsid7429715 The Creation in the Structure of the Cell }
{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2035062 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2190775\charrsid7429715 is One Proof that Invalidates the Theory of Evolution
\par }\pard \ltrpar\s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid2190775 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2035062 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2190775\charrsid2190775 
Thanks to their perfect structures, some 200 different kinds of cells perform different functions in the body.. For example, nerve cells have extensions approximately 1 meter long, r
eaching from the spinal cord down to the feet. This enables stimuli to reach their destination very quickly along a single route. Blood corpuscles, on the other hand, are only 7 micrometers in size, which allows them to pass easily through microscopically
 small capillary vessels. 
\par Inside the eye\rquote s light-sensitive retinal cells, a large number of membranes carry light-sensitive pigments and nerve connections. In this way, the cells become sensitive to light. The intestines contain food-digesting cells with a
 shape ideally suited to their task. All these cells come into being through the division of one single cell in the human embryo. But did unconscious atoms and coincides assume the responsibility for these cells\rquote }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 
\ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2190775  }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2190775\charrsid2190775 flawless shapes so ideally suited to their 
functions? This extraordinary organization and planning, which the theory of evolution can never account for, is a proof of God\rquote s creation. 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2190775 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2035062\charrsid2190775 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid7429715 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2190775\charrsid7429715 The Claim that Life Arrived from }{
\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2035062 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2190775\charrsid7429715 Outer Space is Wholly Fictitious
\par }\pard \ltrpar\s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid2190775 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2035062 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2190775\charrsid2190775 Faced with the fact that amino acids could ne
ver have formed by chance under the conditions of the primeval Earth, evolutionists embarked on a search for some new way to account for the emergence of life. According to one of their new claims, a meteor fell to Earth. Soon after, organic substances an
d amino acids inside this meteor reacted together, and thus life sprang into being. 
\par Yet it is now known that the primeval atmosphere was of such a kind that would have quickly broken down any amino acids. In addition, under the conditions of the primeval E
arth, even if large quantities of amino acids had arrived from outer space, and even if the world had actually been awash in amino acids, this still would not account for the origin of living things. It would still have been impossible for amino acids to 
combine by chance and haphazardly give rise to exceedingly complex and three-dimensional proteins, the organelles of the cell, and then for these organelles to give rise to a cell with its own miraculous structure. 
\par According to yet another view, the first 
life formed not on Earth, but on some other planet. These organisms were subsequently carried to Earth in the form of spores or seeds by meteors, and life thus began here. However, current knowledge shows that it is impossible for spores or seeds in the i
rradiated vacuum of space to have been withstood the heat, pressure, dangerous rays, etc. through their journey to Earth. Therefore, the claim that the first life formed on another planet does not resolve evolutionists\rquote 
 problems at all, but merely places them one step back. The obstacles to life emerging by chance on Earth will also apply on any other planet. 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2190775 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2035062\charrsid2190775 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid7429715 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2190775\charrsid7429715 The False Proof that Life Could Have }{
\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2035062 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2190775\charrsid7429715 Formed Spontaneously on the Primeval Earth
\par }\pard \ltrpar\s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid2190775 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2035062 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2190775\charrsid2190775 For their only evidence of this claim, evolutionists point to the Miller Experiment, carried out in 1953. Yet that experiment produced no living cell.}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 
\ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2190775  }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2190775\charrsid2190775 
All that happened was that a few simple amino acids were synthesized. But it is mathematically impossible for amino acids to assume the correct sequence and constitute pro
teins, and for these then to give rise to the cell, by chance. In addition, the amino acids that Miller synthesized were irrelevant and meaningless, because in his experiment Miller employed gasses that did not exist in the primeval Earth\rquote 
s atmosphere. 
\par 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid7429715 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2035062 \page }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 
\b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2190775\charrsid7429715 The Theory of Evolution Can Never }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2035062 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2190775\charrsid7429715 Explain How Proteins\rquote  Capabilities Came to Be
\par }\pard \ltrpar\s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid2190775 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2035062 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2190775\charrsid2190775 Albumin, one of the proteins in the body, binds to itself fats such as cholesterol, hormones, toxic bile and drugs such as penicillin. It then travels throughout the body in 
the bloodstream, deposits the substances it has collected in the liver where they can be converted into usable form, and carries other nutrients and hormones to the sites where they are needed.
\par How can a molecule such as albumin, composed of unconscious, unknowing atoms, distinguish between fats, toxins, drugs and various nutrients? 
\par Furthermore, how is it able to recognize the liver and gall bladder, and deposit the substances it transports at just the right place and in just the right amounts, never confu
sing them or making a mistake? Since it is impossible for human beings to tell toxins, nutrients and drugs carried in the bloodstream apart from one another, how is a molecule made up of atoms able to do so?}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f0\fs22\insrsid2190775 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2035062 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2035062\charrsid2190775 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid7429715 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2190775\charrsid7429715 Did Unconscious Atoms Think of Setting up }
{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2035062 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2190775\charrsid7429715 and Designing a Power Plant in Our Bodies?
\par }\pard \ltrpar\s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid2190775 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2035062 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2190775\charrsid2190775 In our cells, the energy plants known as \'93mitochondria,\'94
 only 1/100 millimeters in size, are more complex than any oil refinery or hydroelectric station. Our cells, which possess no consciousness or knowledge and ar
e made up of combinations of specific numbers of molecules, produce energy in a manner that is far more economical and practical than that devised by a combination of engineers, technical experts, workers and designers employing the most advanced technolo
gy. 
\par Every detail in the energy plants in our cells has been}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2190775  }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2190775\charrsid2190775 
flawlessly created, from energy conservation to the recycling of waste products. The theory of evolution is unable to account for the formation of even one of these features in the cell. 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2190775 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2035062\charrsid2190775 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid7429715 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2190775\charrsid7429715 The Eq
uivalent of 25 Encyclopedic Volumes of Information }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2035062 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2190775\charrsid7429715 Contained in DNA Cannot Have Emerged by Chance
\par }\pard \ltrpar\s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid2190775 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2035062 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2190775\charrsid2190775 In a single human DNA molecule, there is sufficient information to fill one million printed pages. All this information has a very important sequence. Just 
think; if we typed millions of letters at random on sheets of paper, and if all these letters then turned into words and then formed an article like those in the pages of a newspaper, could we claim that this was all the result of blind chance? Of course 
not! Yet according to the Darwinist mindset, it is indeed possible for such an extraordinary event to take place by chance\emdash not just once, but many times!}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2190775  }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 
\ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2190775\charrsid2190775 
\par 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid7429715 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2035062 \page }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 
\b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2190775\charrsid7429715 How Did Different Species Come }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2035062 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2190775\charrsid7429715 to Have Different DNA?
\par }\pard \ltrpar\s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid2190775 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2035062 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2190775\charrsid2190775 Evolutionists ascribe the origin of different species\rquote  different genetic characteristics to mutations\emdash 
changes that, as you know, take place in DNA as a result of radiation or chemical effects. Yet these outside influences either damage DNA or else have no effects on it. 
\par To clarify this with an exam
ple, let us record a very thorough history of the world on a computer. In the process, let us rewrite the book completely several times, and also ask the person typing it over to press the keyboard at random without actually looking at it. Could he improv
e this history book, or even complete it in the first place? Could a chapter titled \'93The History of Ancient Egypt\'94
 that did not already exist in ever come into being? The inevitable spelling mistakes can of course never improve or develop the book. On the c
ontrary, they will impair it and damage its meaning. Yet evolutionists claim that, in effect, spelling mistakes can improve a book, making it more precise and sophisticated. 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2190775 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2035062\charrsid2190775 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid7429715 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2190775\charrsid7429715 Who Established the Hierarchical }{
\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2035062 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2190775\charrsid7429715 Order in the Genes?
\par }\pard \ltrpar\s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid2190775 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2035062 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2190775\charrsid2190775 Certain genes have the ability to control others. For example, some \'93control\'94 genes halt the gene that manufactures haemoglobin during childhood. 
\par This fact requires careful reflection. Since genes are made up of molecules, how did these molecules set up such an organization among themselves? How can a molecule decide to halt a human being\rquote 
s growth and to transmit that decision to others, and how do those other molecules understand that signal and act upon it? From whom did those disciplined orders originate? 
\par Moreover, trillions of genes have been flawlessly performing these functions with the same discipline, obedience, reason and apparent intent for millions of years. To claim that such an immaculate system came into being by chance is utterly nonsensical.

\par }\pard \ltrpar\s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid7429715 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2035062 
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2190775\charrsid7429715 One Example of the Predicament }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2035062 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2190775\charrsid7429715 in Which Evolutionists Find Themselves
\par }\pard \ltrpar\s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid2190775 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2035062 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2190775\charrsid2190775 Let evolutionists place large quantities of elements found in the structure of living things\emdash such as phosphorus, nitrogen, carbon, oxygen, iron and magnesium\emdash 
into a large container. Let them also add whatever other materials not actually present under normal conditions, but which they may deem necessary. Let them also mix in as much amino acids (which cannot form spontaneously in the Earth\rquote 
s atmosphere) and as many proteins (even though not a single protein can form by chance) as they wish. 
\par To this mixture, let them apply as much heat and moisture as they desire. Then let them agitate it with whatever advanced equipment they choose. Let them have teams of eminent scientists stand watch over the container f
or billions or even trillions of years. Let them be free to apply whatever conditions they may believe to be necessary in order for life to form. No matter what they do they will definitely never be able to produce a living organism from it, much less a h
u
man being. They will definitely be unable to produce any of the countless living species on Earth, such as giraffes, lions, bees, canaries, nightingales, parrots, horses, dolphins, roses, orchids, irises, carnations, bananas, oranges, apples, dates, tomat
oes, melons, water melons, figs, olives, grapes, peaches, peacocks, leeches or brightly-colored butterflies. They will be unable to produce even a single cell, let alone any one of these many life forms. 
\par In short, unconscious, insentient atoms cannot combi
ne together to form a cell. Neither can they subsequently decide to divide that cell into two, and then take further decisions and create creative humans who invent the electron microscope and then examine the structure of their own cells under it. Matter
 is an inanimate, unconscious substance, and finds life only through God\rquote s sublime inspiration. 
\par The theory of evolution, on the other hand, which maintains the exact opposite, is merely nonsense. Just a little consideration of about the irrational claims made by evolutionists will make this crystal clear. 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2190775 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2035062\charrsid2190775 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid7429715 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2190775\charrsid7429715 The Theory of Evolution Cannot Explain }{
\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2035062 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2190775\charrsid7429715 the Creation in Living Things
\par }\pard \ltrpar\s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid2190775 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2035062 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2190775\charrsid2190775 If you see an ink stain on a piece of paper, you naturally assume that an ink has been spilled on the paper, forming a random shape
. But should you see handwriting on that same paper that reads, \'93Call your father,\'94
 you can safely assume that this has not appeared haphazardly. Even if the writer of the note is not in the room, you know that this is a meaningful, purposeful message written by a conscious individual. 
\par Alternatively, when you see a beautiful picture, you know that this is the product of a skilled and knowledgeable intelligent artist, even if you cannot actually see the artist who painted it. 
\par You never imagine that this pi
cture has come into being through paints being flung at it at random. The same applies to the flawless features in living things. Their immaculate and extraordinary engineering clearly show that they cannot be the work of chance, but are rather the produc
t of a Superior Creator. In the face of this truth, the theory of evolution is now in a state of collapse. The superior creation in living things is the work of God, the Lord of all the worlds. 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2190775 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2035062\charrsid2190775 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid7429715 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2190775\charrsid7429715 The Irreducible Complexity in Living }{
\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2035062 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2190775\charrsid7429715 Things Invalidates the Theory of Evolution
\par }\pard \ltrpar\s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid2190775 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2035062 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2190775\charrsid2190775 
The intricate complexity of anatomical systems makes the stage-by-stage development espoused by evolutionists completely impossible. For example, it is impossible for organs such as the tear gland, retina or iris, some of the componen
ts of the eye, to have formed separately, in gradual stages. Eyesight can take place only after all the components of the eyeball are present and fully functioning. If even one is missing or deficient, eye will be useless. And, according to the theory of 
evolution, any functionless organ should be eliminated by way of \'93natural selection.\'94 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2190775 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2035062\charrsid2190775 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid7429715 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2190775\charrsid7429715 The Human Eyeball Is More Complex and }{
\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2035062 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2190775\charrsid7429715 Efficient Than the Most Advanced Camera
\par }\pard \ltrpar\s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid2190775 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2035062 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2190775\charrsid2190775 With its 40 basic components, the human eye provides a better image and clarity than eve
n the most advanced digital camera. In order for the eye to be able to see at all, every one of these 40 components need to be fully functional at the same time, able to work together in harmony. If even one of these components is absent, the eye is effec
tively blind. In the same way that a workable camera cannot emerge in stages as its component parts are assembled haphazardly, neither can the eye have formed in stages and as the result of chance mutations. }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f0\fs22\insrsid2190775 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2035062 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2035062\charrsid2190775 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid7429715 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2190775\charrsid7429715 The Human Brain Is Organized in }{
\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2035062 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2190775\charrsid7429715 a Highly Complex and Superior Way
\par }\pard \ltrpar\s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid2190775 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2035062 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2190775\charrsid2190775 
The brain consists of some 100 billion nerve cells, which communicate with one another by way of connection points known as synapses. There are 10,000 synapses in every neuron, so that any one neuron can communicate with 10,000 other 
neurons at the same time. The number of synapses in the human brain is estimated to be around 1 quadrillion\emdash enabling 1,000,000,000,000,000 acts of communication. The transistors in computers, analogous to the brain\rquote 
s nerve cells, have only six connection points.
\par The fastest computer in the world can perform an average of 109 processes per second. The brain can manage 10}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\up4\insrsid2190775\charrsid2190775 15}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f0\fs22\insrsid2190775\charrsid2190775  (that is, 10,000,000,000,000,000 actions per second.) In addition, the computer has a memory capacity of 1011 bytes (a byte being the sma
llest unit of information capable of being recorded on a computer). Compare that to the brain\rquote s capacity of 1014. In other words, the human brain has a capacity equivalent to that of 1,000 computers.
\par It is absolutely impossible for chance to organize the brain cells in such a way as to give rise to such a dazzling communications network. This system is far more complex and wondrous than Internet technology, one of the greatest developments of the 20}{
\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\up4\insrsid2190775\charrsid2190775 th}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2190775\charrsid2190775  century. Internet technology\emdash indeed, even the simplest t
elephone switchboard system cannot form by chance. People are well aware that engineering, design, information, and intelligence are all essential for such technology. How, then, can they still manage to claim that the brain\rquote 
s far more extraordinary system came into being by \'93evolution\'94\emdash by slow, incremental chance?
\par There is no doubt that this is the result of blind devotion to the theory of evolution. But approaching matters in an unprejudiced manner can clearly reveal the full glory inherent in humanity\rquote s creation.
\par 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid7429715 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2035062 \page }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 
\b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2190775\charrsid7429715 The Bacterial \'93Whip\'94 that Baffles Evolutionists
\par }\pard \ltrpar\s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid2190775 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2035062 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2190775\charrsid2190775 
Certain bacteria use a microscopic whip or flagellum to propel themselves through their liquid environment. This organic engine does not run on the energy kept in a ready state in the ATP molecul
es inside the cell. Instead, it has its own particular source of energy: The bacterium uses the energy it receives from a flow of acid from the membrane. Some 240 separate proteins make up the bacterial whip. Scientists say that these proteins emit signal
s to turn the microscopic engine on and off and form joints that permit movement at the atomic level. 
\par This complex structure in the bacterial flagellum alone is sufficient to demolish the theory of evolution. The whip itself has a structure, which can by n
o means be reduced to a simple form. If only a single molecular piece that constitutes the whip were absent or defective, the flagellum would not function and would therefore be of no use to the bacterium. This yet again clearly reveals the invalidity of 
the theory of evolution\rquote s claim of \'93gradual development.\'94 }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2190775 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2035062 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2035062\charrsid2190775 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid7429715 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2190775\charrsid7429715 
A Defense System with a Memory and a Laboratory
\par }\pard \ltrpar\s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid2190775 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2035062 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2190775\charrsid2190775 Some antigens\emdash foreign bodies and microbes\emdash endanger human beings by entering the bloodstream. When this happens, the defense cells try to eliminate 
these antigens by producing substances known as antibodies or else prevent them from multiplying. 
\par The most surprising, and important, characteristic of antibodies is their ability to recognize hundreds of thousands of microbes that are completely different in nature and to prepare themselves to destroy them. What\rquote 
s really interesting is that there are antibodies that can recognize even artificial antigens produced in the laboratory and introduced inside the human body.
\par How is this cell able to recognize hu
ndreds of thousands of different cells? In addition, how does it acquire information about an artificially produced substance? Moreover, antibodies are able to immediately produce effective weapons to be used against the invader\emdash 
a process that presents an insoluble dilemma for evolutionists.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2190775 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2035062\charrsid2190775 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid7429715 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2190775\charrsid7429715 Bone Cells That Sculpt Cannot }{
\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2035062 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2190775\charrsid7429715 Be the Products of Chance
\par }\pard \ltrpar\s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid2190775 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2035062 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2190775\charrsid2190775 The cells found in bone known as osteoclasts enable changes in the shape and size of bones and let them in time increase to adult dimensions by carving away in
 certain areas of bone. They also decrease the size of protrusions on the bone surface. During the demolition process performed by osteoclasts, other cells known as osteoblasts begin to form new bone tissue to reconstitute the skeleton.
\par The cells perform t
he same task within the bones of every human being. They all know how to reduce and shape the bone surface. Aware of the differences between the skull and the thigh bone, they know how to shape any given bone, when to stop its growth, and how thick or thi
n the eventual bone is to be. These cells prepare the body\rquote 
s skeleton with the greatest care, just like a sculptor. It is Almighty God Who inspires every step taken by these cells that creates the hardness, length, shape, protrusions and cavities of every part of the skeleton.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2190775 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2035062\charrsid2190775 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid7429715 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2190775\charrsid7429715 The Miracle of Blood Clotting
\par }\pard \ltrpar\s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid2190775 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2035062 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2190775\charrsid2190775 The process of blood clotting resembles the first aid performed by ambulance crews called out to attend a traffic accident. 
\par When bleeding takes place in any region of the body, blood platelets known as thrombocytes are dispersed throughout the bloodstream. Wherever bleeding may occur, thrombocytes will always be on call nearby. 
\par Just like a traffic officer, a protein known as Von Willebrand indicates the site of the accident, halts the thrombocytes when
 it detects them and causes them to remain in the site of the incident. The first thrombocyte to arrive attracts others to the site by emitting a special substance, just as if it were summoning assistance.
\par At this point, 20 enzymes in the body come togethe
r to begin producing a protein known as thrombin, which is produced only in the presence of an open wound. This is similar to a first-aid team administering the necessary drugs at a crash site. In addition, the production must be at just the right level, 
and the production of thrombin must also start and stop right on time. The enzymes that produce this protein seem to decide among themselves when production should begin and cease. 
\par Once a sufficient quantity of thrombin has been manufactured, small fibers 
known as fibrinogen form, creating a microscopic network in the blood, to which the thrombocytes adhere and accumulate. Once this accumulation has become sufficiently dense, bleeding stops These enzymes and proteins are structures consisting of different 
arrangements of blind, unconscious, inanimate atoms. Yet each one assumes a function from the moment the incident occurs and they are all \'93organized\'94
 in such a way as to halt the flow of blood in the most speedy manner. The apparent consciousness displayed by these collections of atoms is doubtless a great miracle and cannot, of course, be the product of \'93evolution,\'94
 a process totally dependent on chance.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2190775 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2035062\charrsid2190775 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid7429715 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2190775\charrsid7429715 The Features of Even A Single Molecule Are 
}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2035062 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2190775\charrsid7429715 Enough to Demolish the Theory of Evolution
\par }\pard \ltrpar\s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid2190775 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2035062 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2190775\charrsid2190775 Thrombin is a 
protein that clots the blood. Although it is always present in the bloodstream, it does not cause the constantly flowing blood to congeal. Clotting is necessary only when there is leakage\emdash that is, bleeding\emdash 
from a blood vessel. If thrombin were to perform its function at all times, then all the blood in the body would solidify because of the protein thrombin, and the organism in question would die. 
\par How is it, therefore, that inanimate atoms could have produced this protein that stops bleeding and also have produced this protein\rquote 
s features of so that it does not harm the living organism? Unconscious atoms could not have produced mechanisms requiring such progressive, detailed and magnificent knowledge. Of course, it is Almighty God Who creates all these abilities.
\par 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid7429715 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2190775\charrsid7429715 Blood Cells Capable of Differentiating }{
\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2035062 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2190775\charrsid7429715 between Useful and Harmful Substances
\par }\pard \ltrpar\s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid2190775 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2035062 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2190775\charrsid2190775 Blood as it flows through the capillaries collects waste products from the cells. It carries them to the kidneys, where these substances are filtered out. The carbon diox
ide produced as a byproduct of cells is carried by the blood to the lungs, and from there it is expelled from the body. 
\par The red blood cells in the veins and arteries are able to differentiate between useful and harmful substances in an exceedingly aware m
anner, and are well aware which gasses they must deposit where. For example, they never carry harmful gasses to the kidneys or waste products to the lungs. Neither do they take waste products to organs requiring nourishment. The manner that blood cells pe
r
form their functions without ever making a mistake or suffering any confusion or delays indicates that a supreme Consciousness controls, supervises and organizes them. It is evident that it is the Almighty God Who bestows all these characteristics on the 
blood and creates a perfect circulatory system.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2190775 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2035062\charrsid2190775 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid7429715 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2190775\charrsid7429715 The Kidneys\rquote  Selectivity }{
\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2035062 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2190775\charrsid7429715 Is Not the Work of Chance
\par }\pard \ltrpar\s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid2190775 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2035062 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2190775\charrsid2190775 The kidneys constantly cleanse the blood flowing through the body. They send back some of the substances they filter to be re-used at a later date, and se
crete useless and harmful substances from the body. How are the kidneys able to make these chemical distinctions? How can they differentiate between protein, urea, sodium, glucose and other substances?
\par In the kidneys, structures known as \'93glomerules\'94 forme
d from capillary vessels decide what is to be retained and what gotten rid of. How can a structure of flesh decide how much of one substance is to be expelled and how much to be kept? Could it be blind coincidence\emdash 
or did unconscious atoms, which have never received any training in chemistry, physics or biology, form this selective attribute of the kidneys? Of course not! All these are some further proofs of God\rquote s flawless creation. 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2190775 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2035062\charrsid2190775 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid7429715 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2190775\charrsid7429715 It Is Erroneous to Claim that the Kidneys }
{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2035062 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2190775\charrsid7429715 Came into Being by Chance
\par }\pard \ltrpar\s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid2190775 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2035062 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2190775\charrsid2190775 Onl
y 5 to -7 centimeters in size, the kidney works silently, unceasingly, without ever making its presence felt and without ever needing any maintenance. It controls the quality of the blood, orders blood cells to be produced, regulates the amount of water i
n the blood, and cleanses it by operating 2.4 million filtration units ideally suited to the body\rquote 
s needs. In fact, it keeps on working to ensure the survival of the body throughout our daily lives without setting aside just one specific time for work.
\par A dialysis machine is the size of an average refrigerator, runs on electricity, is noisy, wears out in 3 to 4 years, requires constant maintenance. It needs constant circulation of blood in the event of a patient\rquote 
s kidney failure, whose blood cannot be cleansed in the body. The machine is operated by expert doctors and technicians in sterile hospital conditions. All patients\rquote 
 blood pressure drops enormously when they are attached to the machine. They become breathless and start trembling. Bleeding is frequent and occurs easily; muscular cramps often arise. 
\par But the dialysis machine is merely a simple filter. Since it cleanses the blood only crudely, tests need to be run on the patient and those substances that are lacking have to be replaced. Patients are attach
ed to the machine for five hours, three days a week, during which time they are unable to move.
\par It is totally illogical for those who know that a dialysis machine cannot have come into being by chance to claim that the kidneys\emdash which are so far superior to it\emdash could have done so.}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f0\fs22\insrsid2190775 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2035062 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2035062\charrsid2190775 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid7429715 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2190775\charrsid7429715 Bone Cells\rquote  Ability to Trap Calcium 
}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2035062 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2190775\charrsid7429715 Cannot Be Coincidental
\par }\pard \ltrpar\s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid2190775 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2035062 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2190775\charrsid2190775 The bones store within them such vital substances as calcium and phosphorus, returning these stored elements back into the bloodstream when need arises. A bone cell, with
 no taste buds or any other sense organs, is easily able to distinguish calcium and phosphorus from among all the thousands of different substances in the blood. It then traps these molecules without ever making a mistake. Not even a human being, without 
receiving extensive training in the field, can differentiate between different chemicals such as calcium, phosphorus, iron and zinc if they are dissolved in solution.
\par In addition, when the bone cell receives the instruction (via the hormone calcitonin) to \'93store calcium\'94 it obeys immediately. If an order telling it to \'93release the stored calcium\'94
 (via the hormone parathormone) arrives, it again obeys forthwith. The bone cell continues working day and night, with apparent intention, capability, responsibility
 and a high sense of discipline. It is obvious that this cell with such special abilities cannot have come into being by chance.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2190775 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2035062\charrsid2190775 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid7429715 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2190775\charrsid7429715 The Stomach\rquote s Flawless Structure 

\par }\pard \ltrpar\s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid2190775 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2035062 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2190775\charrsid2190775 The stomach secretes very powerful acids that allow it to digest foodstuffs and take advan
tage of the nutrients they contain. These acids are strong enough to dissolve a razor blade. But how is it that these acids, themselves composed of proteins, do not damage the stomach? The answer to this lies in one of the instances of matchless structure
 in the human body. Thanks to the striated nature of the stomach lining, the stomach does not actually digest itself.
\par These deep folds in the stomach walls contain cells with very different characteristics from one another. In order to maintain a delicate b
alance, some cells in the stomach secrete acid, other cells alongside them secrete a sticky fluid known as mucus, which coats the inner surface of the stomach, protecting the stomach wall against these acids and preventing the digestive enzymes from doing
 any damage. 
\par Could the decision-making center that takes such rational precautions on behalf of the stomach be the cells themselves, or even the stomach lining? Of course not! Every feature in the human body is a proof of God\rquote s flawless creation. 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2190775 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid3628156\charrsid2190775 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid7429715 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2190775\charrsid7429715 Anothe
r Predicament for the Theory of Evolution: }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid3628156 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2190775\charrsid7429715 Information Theory
\par }\pard \ltrpar\s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid2190775 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid3628156 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2190775\charrsid2190775 
One of the many puzzles that evolutionists are unable to explain is the sheer volume of information in living things, because information can never be reduced to matter. A book, for example, c
onsists of paper, ink and the information it contains. The paper and ink are material elements, but the vital information they convey is not material. 
\par If something contains information, then it must have been arranged by a conscious mind possessed of that information. For example, the origin of whatever information is contained in any book is the mind of the author who first thought those words. 
\par The DNA of living things contains exceedingly comprehensive information. In the 20}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\up4\insrsid2190775\charrsid2190775 th}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2190775\charrsid2190775 
 century science revealed that all this information in DNA could not, contrary to materialists\rquote 
 claims, in fact be reduced to matter. The information in DNA is the work of a superior Mind and infinite Knowledge. This extraordinary information which represents the source of all life 
presents countless proofs of the existence of God, the Lord of all the worlds, while also totally refuting materialist philosophy.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2190775 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid3628156\charrsid2190775 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid7429715 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2190775\charrsid7429715 The Lie that the Human Embryo Has Gills

\par }\pard \ltrpar\s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid2190775 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid3628156 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2190775\charrsid2190775 This claim is based on a scientific fraud that the evolutionist biologist Ernst Ha
eckel perpetrated in the early 20th century. In order to supply evidence of evolution that did not in fact exist, Haeckel drew the developing embryos of such life forms as human beings, chickens and fish alongside one another\emdash 
but deliberately distorted them. The whole scientific world now agrees that this was a fraud. The structure that Haeckel depicted as a \'93gill\'94 is actually the beginning of the middle ear canal, the parathyroids, and the thymus gland.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2190775 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid3628156\charrsid2190775 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid7429715 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2190775\charrsid7429715 Molecular Comparisons Represent }{
\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid3628156 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2190775\charrsid7429715 No Evidence for Evolution
\par }\pard \ltrpar\s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid2190775 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid3628156 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2190775\charrsid2190775 
Evolutionists point to the fact that different species having similar DNA codes and proteins, and they interpret this as proof that species must have evolved from one another. First of all, it should be made clear that living things\rquote  vital functio
ns are basically the same\emdash 
for which reason it is perfectly natural that their DNAs should be similar. But this does not imply that they are evolved from a common ancestor. In addition, when the DNA belonging to different living species and classes are anal
yzed and compared, it is totally apparent that similarities or differences in living things\rquote 
 DNAs are incompatible with any evolutionist logic or connection. Claims that seek anatomical or chemical similarities in living things and then seek to claim these as evidence for evolution are totally invalid in the face of the scientific facts.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2190775 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid3628156\charrsid2190775 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid7429715 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2190775\charrsid7429715 
Bacteria Developing Resistance to Antibiotics }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid3628156 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2190775\charrsid7429715 Is No Evidence of \'93Evolution\'94
\par }\pard \ltrpar\s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid2190775 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid3628156 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2190775\charrsid2190775 Some present the way that some disease-causing bacteria begin to exhibit resistance to antibiotics as evidence for their having evolved.
\par But these resistant bacteria are not a new species! The resistance they develop arises in the following way: When all bacteria are exposed to the toxic effects of a particular drug, most of them, which are not r
esistant to the drug, die off. Resistant variations, on the other hand, survive and have a greater opportunity to multiply. Eventually, future bacterial colonies come to consist entirely of individuals that share resistance to the drug in question. 

\par In fact, the information regarding antibiotic resistance exists in the bacteria\rquote s DNA right from the outset. In other words, this resistance has not emerged by chance and has not in any sense been subsequently acquired. 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2190775 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid3628156\charrsid2190775 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid7429715 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2190775\charrsid7429715 God Has Not Created Life through Evolution

\par }\pard \ltrpar\s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid2190775 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid3628156 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2190775\charrsid2190775 Some people claim that they believe in God, but also believe in the theory of evolution. Yet this is a highly mistaken position to adopt\emdash because:
\par 1. The only reference and guide for anyone who says they believe in God and His religion is the Qur\rquote an. But the Qur\rquote 
an contains no information about creation having come about by way of evolution. On the contrary, its verses reveal that life and the universe were brought into existence when God commanded them to \'93Be!\'94
\par 2. The fundamental focus of the theory of evolution is the denial of the existence of any Creator. Ever since Darwin\rquote 
s day, all the proponents of the theory of evolution have made this abundantly clear. The theory has been the main foundation of atheism for the last 150 years. It is of course imp
ossible to construct any form of alliance between the most effective foundation of atheism and belief in God. 
\par Another factor that makes the theory of evolution unacceptable is the fact that science has refuted it. The theory has been unable to prove its own most basic claims. 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2190775 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid3628156\charrsid2190775 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid7429715 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2190775\charrsid7429715 Variations Are No Evidence of Evolution

\par }\pard \ltrpar\s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid2190775 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid3628156 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2190775\charrsid2190775 \'93Variation\'94
 is a term employed in genetics for the phenomenon that causes individuals or groups within one species to display different, distinct features. For example, all the humans in the world are of the same species\emdash Homo sapiens\emdash 
and have essentially the same genetic information. Yet thanks to the potential for variation permitted by that genetic information, some have almond-shaped eyes, others have red hair, some have long noses, and others are short and stocky in stature. 

\par Evolutionists, however, attempt to portray such variations within a species as evidence for the development of new species\emdash and in turn, for the theory of evolution. But the fact is, variation represents no evidence fo
r evolution at all. It merely represents the emergence of different combinations of already-existing genetic potential. It cannot endow future generations with new genetic information and brand-new characteristics. 
\par For example, no matter how much you try to improve a line of cats by crossbreeding them, the resulting kittens will always remain cats and will never develop into dogs.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2190775 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid3628156\charrsid2190775 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid7429715 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2190775\charrsid7429715 The Origin of Behavior Does }{\rtlch\fcs1 
\af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid3628156 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2190775\charrsid7429715 Not Lie in Evolution
\par }\pard \ltrpar\s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid2190775 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid3628156 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2190775\charrsid2190775 Evolutionists regard all animal and human behavior as having an evolutiona
ry origin. But an evolutionary explanation does not square with the facts, because animals have no reason, consciousness and capacity with which to learn by trial and error. They cannot record in their genes what they have learned and then pass these lear
ned skills along to their subsequent offspring. They possess forms of behavior such as their life-saving defense techniques and nest-building capabilities right from birth. 
\par God creates all living things with their own unique characteristics and forms of be
havior. It is impossible, for example, for a butterfly to realize that mimicking a dry leaf will better camouflage it and thus enable it to escape predators, and then to transform this thought into radical changes in its own wings. Alternatively, a beaver
 is able to construct a dam\emdash which requires advanced engineering calculations in order to halt the flow of water along the bed of a stream\emdash 
and is able to do this right from the moment it grows old enough to do so. This skill is not anything that can be learned or acquired by way of such unconscious mechanisms as natural selection. 
\par Living things are born in possession of certain forms of behavior and various characteristics that will protect them, right from the moment they are created. It is God Who bestows these characteristics on them. 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2190775 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid3628156\charrsid2190775 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid7429715 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2190775\charrsid7429715 
Darwinism Lies at the Root of the Ideologies }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid3628156 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs32 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs32\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2190775\charrsid7429715 that Inflicted Disasters on the 20th Century
\par }\pard \ltrpar\s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid2190775 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid3628156 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2190775\charrsid2190775 The concept of \'93survival of the fittest\'94 constitutes the basis of Darwinism. Its other two important features are that it regards 
human beings as just another species of animal and offers a supposedly scientific foundation for philosophies and ideologies that deny God and His religion. In the 20th century, these features of Darwinism provided justification and support for a great ma
ny dangerous ideologies and philosophies such as amoral capitalism, racism, eugenics, communism and fascism. 
\par Why was Darwinism so strongly supported by certain circles? The reason is because thanks to Darwinism, it was no longer possible to condemn or prev
ent those who perpetrated barbaric slaughter, who treated their fellow human beings like animals, who turned nation against nation, who belittled entire peoples because of their race, who forced small businesses into bankruptcy through unfair competition 
or who refused to extend helping hands to the poor\emdash doing all this in accord with a supposedly \'93scientific\'94 law of nature. 
\par That is why Darwinism posed such a grave danger and even today provides supposedly scientific support for most of the ideologies and p
hilosophies that continue to wreak such harm on society and humanity. That is why a scientific refutation of Darwinism is so important. }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid7429715 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid7429715 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2190775\charrsid2190775 \page }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs36 \ltrch\fcs0 
\b\f0\fs36\expnd1\expndtw5\insrsid2190775\charrsid7429715 CONCLUSION
\par }\pard \ltrpar\s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid2190775 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid7429715 
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2190775\charrsid2190775 Clearly it is God, the Lord of all the worlds, Who creates all living things. Every person who thinks abo
ut the multitude of living organisms around him and his own body can grasp and appreciate this fact. The theory of evolution is a clearly irrational claim against the tenets of science. 
\par It is also evident that blind chance cannot give rise to the flawless structures to be found everywhere throughout nature. Some people, who admit that not even a plastic bottle can come into being by chance, are nevertheless still able to claim\emdash 
solely for the sake of keeping alive their atheistic and materialistic world views\emdash that living things with their perfect and extraordinarily complex characteristics did come into existence by chance. 
\par However, these claims are no longer being accepted. The 21st century is becoming a historic turning point when all humanity admits that
 God is the sole Creative Power. In the same way that the 19th century has gone down in history as an era dominated by a materialist world view, so will the 21st century be recalled as a turning point when belief in the existence and oneness of God was st
rengthened. 
\par In one verse God tells us: 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs22\insrsid7429715 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs22\insrsid2190775\charrsid2190775 Say: \'93Have you thought about your partner gods, those you call upon besides God? Show me what they have created of the earth; or do they have a partnership in the heavens?
\rquote  Have We given them a Book whose clear signs they follow? No indeed! The wrongdoers promise each other nothing but delusion. (Surah Fatir, 40)}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2190775\charrsid2190775 
\par }\pard\plain \ltrpar\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid2190775 \rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs20\alang1025 \ltrch\fcs0 \f8\fs24\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\rtlch\fcs1 
\af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2190775\charrsid2190775 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid7429715 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2190775\charrsid2190775 \page }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f0\fs22\insrsid7429715 
\par 
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs22\insrsid2190775\charrsid2190775 For the last 150 years, the theory of evolution has been portrayed everywhere\emdash from school textbooks to scholarly publications\emdash as scientific fact. But i
t actually stands on highly unsound foundations. Every claim that evolutionists have made over the last 150 years has later been refuted by science. Evolutionists have finally abandoned trying to prove their theory and instead, have begun looking for ways
 to prop it up by such methods as propaganda, demagogy, and outright deception. Their aim is no longer to defend a scientific theory, but rather to persist in promoting this nonsense which is supposed }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 
\b\f0\fs22\insrsid7429715 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs22\insrsid2190775\charrsid2190775 to be scientific so as to maintain their materialist, atheistic world views.
\par In this book, the theory of evolution\rquote s basic claims are refuted with scientific evidence. It demonstrates, using concrete examples with which you will be quite familiar, }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs22\insrsid7429715 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f0\fs22\insrsid2190775\charrsid2190775 why it is impossible for new species to emerge through evolution.
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid2190775 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\fs22\insrsid2190775\charrsid2190775 
\par }}