{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1254\uc1\deff8\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1055\deflangfe2052{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset162\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f8\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02040503060506020304}New York{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f1707\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Times New Roman{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f1705\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f1706\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f1708\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f1710\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew){\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f1711\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic){\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f1712\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f1713\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese){\*\falt Times New Roman};}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;
\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f8\fs24\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}{\*
\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}{\s15\qj \fi454\li0\ri0\sl-320\slmult0
\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 \sbasedon0 \snext15 ANA METIN;}{\s16\qj \fi454\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\b\f8\fs24\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 \sbasedon0 \snext16 ARA BASLIK;}{\s17\qj \li454\ri0\sb40\sa40\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin454\itap0 
\f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 \sbasedon0 \snext17 ALINTI;}{\s18\qj \li454\ri0\sb40\sa40\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin454\itap0 
\b\f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 \sbasedon0 \snext18 ayet;}{\s19\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sb57\sa57\sl-260\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 \sbasedon0 \snext19 Body Text 2;}{\s20\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\f8\fs16\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 \sbasedon0 \snext20 
RESIM ALTI;}}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid1589504\rsid1769530\rsid1903720\rsid2372234\rsid3351242\rsid3626024\rsid4280561\rsid4485732\rsid6842606\rsid7027666\rsid7155957\rsid14290980\rsid15433267\rsid15627339}{\*\generator Microsoft Word 10.0.2627;}{\info
{\title The Miracle in the Masquito}{\author HARUN YAHYA}{\operator 2001}{\creatim\yr2005\mo3\dy20\hr11\min26}{\revtim\yr2005\mo3\dy27\hr14\min5}{\version13}{\edmins41}{\nofpages49}{\nofwords21161}{\nofchars120620}{\nofcharsws141499}{\vern16437}}
\margl1080\margr1080\margt1417\margb1417 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\hyphhotz0\sprstsp\otblrul\brkfrm\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\sprstsm\truncex\nolead\nospaceforul\msmcap\lytprtmet\hyphcaps0\horzdoc\dghspace120\dgvspace120\dghorigin1701
\dgvorigin1984\dghshow0\dgvshow0\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\bdrrlswsix\nolnhtadjtbl\rsidroot15433267 \fet0\sectd \pgnrestart\linex0\headery708\footery708\colsx708\endnhere\sectdefaultcl\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang 
{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}
{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9
\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \qc \li567\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin567\itap0\pararsid4485732 \f8\fs24\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\b\f0\fs72\insrsid1903720 

\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par }{\b\f0\fs72\insrsid3626024\charrsid4485732 T}{\b\f0\fs72\insrsid4485732\charrsid4485732 HE}{\b\f0\fs72\insrsid3626024\charrsid4485732  M}{\b\f0\fs72\insrsid4485732\charrsid4485732 IRACLE}{\b\f0\fs72\insrsid3626024\charrsid4485732  }{
\b\f0\fs72\insrsid4485732\charrsid4485732 IN}{\b\f0\fs72\insrsid3626024\charrsid4485732  }{\b\f0\fs72\insrsid1903720 
\par }{\b\f0\fs72\insrsid4485732\charrsid4485732 THE}{\b\f0\fs72\insrsid3626024\charrsid4485732  M}{\b\f0\fs72\insrsid4485732\charrsid4485732 ASQUITO}{\b\f0\fs72\insrsid3626024\charrsid4485732 
\par }\pard \qc \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid4485732 {\b\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024 
\par }{\b\f0\fs22\insrsid1903720 
\par }{\b\f0\fs22\insrsid7027666 
\par }{\b\f0\fs22\insrsid1903720 
\par }{\b\f0\fs22\insrsid1903720\charrsid4485732 
\par }{\b\f0\fs22\insrsid1903720 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par }\pard \qc \fi567\li0\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid1903720 {\b\f0\fs52\insrsid3626024\charrsid1903720 H}{\b\f0\fs52\insrsid4485732\charrsid1903720 ARUN}{\b\f0\fs52\insrsid3626024\charrsid1903720  Y}{
\b\f0\fs52\insrsid4485732\charrsid1903720 AHYA}{\b\f0\fs52\insrsid3626024\charrsid1903720 
\par }\pard \qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 {\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par }\pard \qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\tx5669\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 {\b\f0\fs22\insrsid15433267 \page 
\par }\pard \qj \fi567\li0\ri170\widctlpar\tx5669\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 {\b\f0\fs36\insrsid15433267 INTRODUCTION\tab }{\b\f0\fs36\insrsid15433267\charrsid15433267 
\par }\pard \qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\tx5669\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 {\b\f0\fs22\insrsid15433267 
\par }{\b\f0\fs22\insrsid15433267\charrsid15433267 
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid15433267\charrsid3351242 THE ADVENTURE BEGINS\tab 
\par 
\par SKILLS OF THE MOSQUITO\tab 
\par 
\par PHASES OF DEVELOPMENT\tab 
\par 
\par A BRAND-NEW BODY\tab 
\par 
\par CONCLUSION\tab 
\par 
\par THE DECEPTION OF EVOLUTION}{\b\f0\fs22\insrsid15433267 \tab }{\b\f0\fs22\insrsid15433267\charrsid15433267 
\par }\pard \qc \fi567\li0\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid1769530 {\b\f0\fs22\insrsid15433267 \page }{\b\f0\fs36\insrsid3626024\charrsid1769530 TO THE READER}{\f0\fs36\insrsid3626024\charrsid1769530 
\par }\pard \qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 {\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024 
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid15433267\charrsid15433267 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
A special chapter is assigned to the collapse of the theory of evolution because this theory constitutes the basis of all anti-spiritual philosophies. Since Darwinism rejects the fact of creation\emdash and therefore, God's existence\emdash over the last
 140 years it has caused many people to abandon their faith or fall into doubt. It is therefore an imperative service, a very important duty to show everyone that this theory is a deception. Since some readers may find the chance to read only one of our b
ooks, we think it appropriate to devote a chapter to summarize this subject.
\par }\pard\plain \qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \f8\fs24\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
All the author's books explain faith-related issues in light of Qur'anic verses, and invite readers to learn God's words and to live by them. All the subjects concerning God's vers
es are explained so as to leave no doubt or room for questions in the reader's mind. The books' sincere, plain, and fluent style ensures that everyone of every age and from every social group can easily understand them. Thanks to their effective, lucid na
rrative, they can be read at one sitting. Even those who rigorously reject spirituality are influenced by the facts these books document and cannot refute the truthfulness of their contents.
\par This and all the other books by the author can be read individually, or discussed in a group. Readers eager to profit from the books will find discussion very useful, letting them relate their reflections and experiences to one another.
\par In addition, it will be a great service to Islam to contribute to the publication and
 reading of these books, written solely for the pleasure of God. The author's books are all extremely convincing. For this reason, to communicate true religion to others, one of the most effective methods is encouraging them to read these books.
\par We hope the reader will look through the reviews of his other books at the back of this book. His rich source material on faith-related issues is very useful, and a pleasure to read.
\par In these books, unlike some other books, you will not find the author's personal vi
ews, explanations based on dubious sources, styles that are unobservant of the respect and reverence due to sacred subjects, nor hopeless, pessimistic arguments that create doubts in the mind and deviations in the heart.
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par }\pard \qc \fi567\li0\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid1769530 {\b\f0\fs22\insrsid15433267 \page }{\b\f0\fs36\insrsid3626024\charrsid1769530 ABOUT THE AUTHOR}{\f0\fs36\insrsid3626024\charrsid1769530 
\par }\pard \qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 {\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par 
\par Now writing
 under the pen-name of HARUN YAHYA, he was born in Ankara in 1956. Having completed his primary and secondary education in Ankara, he studied arts at Istanbul's Mimar Sinan University and philosophy at Istanbul University. Since the 1980s, he has publishe
d
 many books on political, scientific, and faith-related issues. Harun Yahya is well-known as the author of important works disclosing the imposture of evolutionists, their invalid claims, and the dark liaisons between Darwinism and such bloody ideologies 
as fascism and communism.
\par His pen-name is a composite of the names }{\i\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 Harun}{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267  (Aaron) and }{\i\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 Yahya}{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
 (John), in memory of the two esteemed Prophets who fought against their people's lack of faith. The Prophet's seal on his books' covers is symbolic and is linked to t
heir contents. It represents the Qur'an (the Final Scripture) and Prophet Muhammad (may God bless him and grant him peace), last of the prophets. Under the guidance of the Qur'an and the Sunnah (teachings of the Prophet [may God bless him and grant him pe
a
ce]), the author makes it his purpose to disprove each fundamental tenet of godless ideologies and to have the "last word," so as to completely silence the objections raised against religion. He uses the seal of the final Prophet (may God bless him and gr
ant him peace), who attained ultimate wisdom and moral perfection, as a sign of his intention to offer the last word.
\par All of Harun Yahya's works share one single goal: to convey the Qur'an's message, encourage readers to consider basic faith-related issues 
such as God's existence and unity and the Hereafter; and to expose godless systems' feeble foundations and perverted ideologies.
\par Harun Yahya enjoys a wide readership in many countries, from India to America, England to Indonesia, Poland to Bosnia, and Spai
n to Brazil. Some of his books are available in English, French, German, Spanish, Italian, Portuguese, Urdu, Arabic, Albanian, Russian, Serbo-Croat (Bosnian), Polish, Malay, Uygur Turkish, and Indonesian.
\par Greatly appreciated all around the world, these wor
ks have been instrumental in many people recovering faith in God and gaining deeper insights into their faith. His books' wisdom and sincerity, together with a distinct style that's easy to understand, directly affect anyone who reads them. Those who seri
o
usly consider these books, can no longer advocate atheism or any other perverted ideology or materialistic philosophy, since these books are characterized by rapid effectiveness, definite results, and irrefutability. Even if they continue to do so, it wil
l be only a sentimental insistence, since these books refute such ideologies from their very foundations. All contemporary movements of denial are now ideologically defeated, thanks to the books written by Harun Yahya.
\par This is no doubt a result of the Qur'an's wisdom and lucidity. The author modestly intends to serve as a means in humanity's search for God's right path. No material gain is sought in the publication of these works.
\par Those who encourage others to read these books, to open their minds and hearts and guide them to become more devoted servants of God, render an invaluable service.
\par Meanwhile, it would only be a waste of time and energy to propagate other books that create confusion in people's minds, lead them into ideological chaos, and that clearl
y have no strong and precise effects in removing the doubts in people's hearts, as also verified from previous experience. It is impossible for books devised to emphasize the author's literary power rather than the noble goal of saving people from loss of
 
faith, to have such a great effect. Those who doubt this can readily see that the sole aim of Harun Yahya's books is to overcome disbelief and to disseminate the Qur'an's moral values. The success and impact of this service are manifested in the readers' 
conviction.
\par One point should be kept in mind: The main reason for the continuing cruelty, conflict, and other ordeals endured by the vast majority of people is the ideological prevalence of disbelief. This can be ended only with the ideological defeat of di
sbelief and by conveying the wonders of creation and Qur'anic morality so that people can live by it. Considering the state of the world today, leading into a downward spiral of violence, corruption and conflict, clearly this service must be provided spee
dily and effectively, or it may be too late.
\par In this effort, the books of Harun Yahya assume a leading role. By the will of God, these books will be a means through which people in the twenty-first century will attain the peace, justice, and happiness promised in the Qur'an.
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\expnd17\expndtw85\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 

\par }\pard \s15\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid1769530 {\f0\fs22\expnd17\expndtw85\insrsid15433267 \page }{\b\f0\fs36\expnd17\expndtw85\insrsid3626024\charrsid1769530 INTRODUCTION
\par }\pard \s15\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 {\f0\fs22\expnd17\expndtw85\insrsid15433267 
\par 
\par }{\f0\fs22\expnd17\expndtw85\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 T}{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 he many tasks th
at animals carry out and their actions require a degree of judgement, knowledge, experience and expertise going far beyond what they could imaginably do with the degree of intelligence available to them. Even simple observation is enough for us to know th
a
t it is not the animals themselves that produce these superior characteristics. Consider the ability of birds migrating thousands of kilometres to navigate faultlessly, the marvellous architectural skills employed by spiders when spinning their webs, the 
perfect cooperation and sharing of duties in ant colonies, the wonderful geometry of the honeycombs, built cooperatively by thousands of bees, and countless other examples...
\par The source of intelligence and will that enable animals to do these things is to b
e found neither in their bodies nor in nature, but rather in the conscious intervention of a hidden intelligence and power which reveals itself at every stage. Even if the owner of this intelligence and power cannot be seen, such intervention in events pr
ovides enough evidence of the existence of this power to remove all doubt. 
\par The evolutionist scientists who are aware of this also admit to the existence of a power that goes far beyond the ability of these creatures to carry out their labours, but they limit their explanations of the subject by calling this power \'93instinct.
\'94 Because they do not wish to acknowledge the true holder of this power they call instinct, they also invent a name for it and call it \'93mother nature.\'94 However, to date, no evolutionist h
as been able to show the place where the order is given for what they call instinct, to define what they call \'93mother nature,\'94 to explain whether it is a stone, a tree, a river, a mountain, a sea or a star. 
\par As a result, the evolutionists create an imaginary god out of what they call \'93mother nature\'94 and apply the term \'93instinct\'94 to behaviour that is really brought about by the command and inspiration of God. God reveals in the Qur\rquote 
an as follows:
\par }\pard\plain \s18\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \b\f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\insrsid1769530 
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 What you serve apart from Him are only names which you and your forefathers have made up. There is no mandate for them from God\'85 (Qur\rquote an, 12:40)
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\insrsid1769530 
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 Thus by not accepting the facts, they deceive themselves and try to appease their consciences. They clearly feel the existence of God and His attributes in their consciences, but they run away from \'93reality
\'94 and deny the evidence of God. The reason for this is explained in the Qur\rquote an as follows:
\par }\pard\plain \s18\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \b\f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\insrsid1769530 
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 When Our Signs came to them in all their clarity, they said, \'93This is downright magic,\'94 and they repudiated them wrongly and haug
htily, in spite of their own certainty about them. Consider the final fate of the corrupters. (Qur\rquote an, 27:13-14)
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\insrsid1769530 
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 God has spread boundless evidence of His existence before the eyes of man. He has made manifest His eternal intelligence and knowledge in His 
chosen beings. With His endless grace, He gives unimaginable tasks to the most unexpected, humble, even brainless creatures. As a result, many creatures, whether large or small, from birds to reptiles, from whales to insects, exhibit unexpected behaviour 
and actions that fill people with admiration. Such behaviours are surprising to most people. Even man, who sees himself as an intelligent, knowledgeable and conscious being, is humbled in the face of many of these skills (for example, the spider\rquote 
s ability to produce strands stronger than steel), and does not even have the power to imitate them.
\par The subject of this book, the mosquito, is just one such creature, aspects of whose behaviour fill us with admiration. And although it is the creature we may be most 
used to and encounter most commonly, it is possibly the one we give the least thought to and consider as worthless.}{\f0\fs22\insrsid15433267\charrsid15433267  }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par So you may well ask yourself, \'93In that case, why the mosquito?\'94 God decrees as follows in a verse of the Qur\rquote an:
\par }\pard\plain \s18\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \b\f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\insrsid6842606 
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 God is not ashamed to make an example of a mosquito or of an even smaller thing. As for those who believe, they know it is the truth from their Lord. But as for those who disbelieve, they say, \'93
What does God mean by this example?\'94 He misguides many by it and guides many by it. But He only misguides the deviators. (Qur\rquote an, 2:26)
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\insrsid6842606 
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 It behoves a man who is aware of this fact to reflect sincerely on the evidence of God\rquote s creation and to rightly fear (and respect) Him. 
\par }\pard\plain \s18\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \b\f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\insrsid6842606 
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 ... Do you not know that God has power over all things? Do you not know that God is He to Whom the kingdom of the heavens and the Earth belongs and that, besides God, you have no protector and no helper? (Qur
\rquote an, 2:106-107)}{\f0\fs22\insrsid1903720 
\par }\pard \s18\qc \fi567\li0\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid6842606 {\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 \page }{\f0\fs36\insrsid3626024\charrsid6842606 THE ADVENTURE BEGINS
\par }\pard \s18\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 {\b0\f0\fs22\expnd15\expndtw75\insrsid6842606 
\par 
\par }{\b0\f0\fs22\expnd15\expndtw75\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 A}{\b0\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 s the rainy season approaches, there is a su
rge of activity in the dried-up ponds. These are ideal breeding places for the mosquitoes. At the bottom of ponds and in every hollow that is likely to fill up with water, mosquitoes can be seen on the move, but they are walking around rather than flying,
 as though intent on finding something. 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
Mosquitoes, normally thought of as fliers, present an interesting sight as they try to walk over obstacles that are like mountain peaks compared to their own size. All at once, thousands of mosquitoes go into action,
 as though they have received an order from somewhere. Now it is time for them to do their duty.}{\f0\fs22\insrsid15433267\charrsid15433267  }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par }\pard\plain \qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \f8\fs24\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \b\f8\fs24\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs28\insrsid3626024\charrsid3351242 
The long journey of the detector mosquitoes...
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
Mother mosquitoes have to find a suitable place for their eggs. The young emerging from their eggs need water 
in order to complete their stages of growth. This can be a muddy pool left by the rain, a swamp, a paddy field, a swimming pool or even a few drops of water in a tin can. Mosquitoes have a preference for still water, as this kind of water contains plants 
that can photosynthesise and thus enrich the water with oxygen, which is one of the most important requirements of the larvae.}{\f0\fs22\insrsid15433267\charrsid15433267  }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par }{\f0\fs22\expnd-1\expndtw-5\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 The mosquito eggs can develop in any environment where there is water, but even so, a certain set of conditions is required. The 
hatching larvae have to go through various stages of development before they become mature mosquitoes, and at each stage the young mosquitoes have different needs. Moreover, drought or severe heat can hinder the development of the eggs. For this reason, t
he mother mosquito has to find an environment in which the young she will produce can comfortably complete their development. }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par So how does the mosquito find the most suitable environment? By sight, by smell, by guesswork, or by coincidence?
\par Let\rquote s illustrate
 with an example the difficulty the mosquito faces in finding the most suitable place for its eggs. Imagine you are trying to reach somewhere in a place that is full of hills, trees and hollows and you are walking under the hot sun without any means of he
lp like a sunshade or a vehicle. You can imagine how tiring such a journey would be. 
\par When we think how small a mosquito is, we can imagine how difficult, even impossible it could be to find a suitable place. However, the mosquito does this effortlessly and
 lays its eggs with ease. Thanks to a special receptor on the underside of its abdomen, it can determine whether the moisture content and temperature of the ground make it a suitable place for the eggs. It scans the ground tirelessly to find the most suit
able place. 
\par }\pard\plain \qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \f8\fs24\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \b\f8\fs24\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs28\insrsid3626024\charrsid3351242 
The arduous task begins\'85
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 Let\rquote 
s give some thought to how a creature such as the mosquito can carry out the task of measuring the moisture content and temperature of the ground.}{\f0\fs22\insrsid15433267\charrsid15433267  }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par Conducting research into earth is quite a painstaking task. Human 
beings make use of specially designed devices to ascertain the degree of moisture, the age and the fertility of the earth and to determine what minerals and materials it contains. Detectors are used or the earth is probed and samples examined in a laborat
ory, because it is somewhat difficult to obtain reliable results from an operation\emdash such as digging\emdash 
without knowing what there is, how deep it is and how much of it there is. A mistake results in wasted effort, time and money, which is difficult to recoup. 
\par As for the mosquito, it first scans the ground to get a conclusive result. It obtains information on the general state of the ground, evaluates its findings and makes a decision according to the conclusion it comes to. At this point it should not be forgo
tten that we are not talking about a fully equipped technical device, but a little creature only 10 mm (0.4 inch) in length.}{\f0\fs22\insrsid15433267\charrsid15433267  }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par }\pard\plain \qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \f8\fs24\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\b\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \b\f8\fs24\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs28\insrsid3626024\charrsid3351242 
The talents of the mosquito
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 Let\rquote 
s go over what has been explained so far and think about how a mosquito manages to do this.}{\f0\fs22\insrsid15433267\charrsid15433267  }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par A cre
ature 10 mm (0.4 inch) in length is making a conscious investigation. Its aim is to find an environment for its eggs which will meet the needs of the hatching young. The first thing we need to think about is how the mosquito knows what requirements its eg
gs have.}{\f0\fs22\insrsid15433267\charrsid15433267  }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par The mosquito has no knowledge of concepts such as temperature change and humidity rate. For example, it does not know the moisture content, the water content of a unit volume of earth. Nor does it know that the enzymes and proteins in the eggs wil
l be activated by the right degree of moisture and heat. It would of course be unreasonable to think that the mosquito knows what protein and enzymes are, what they are for, under what conditions they will be activated to ensure the development of the egg
, and how to look ahead and act on the basis of this knowledge.}{\f0\fs22\insrsid15433267\charrsid15433267  }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par In that case, how is it that a mosquito knows that it has to find the right degree of moisture and heat? 
\par The mosquito is an insect with no capacity for such talents as thinking or learning. Nor is there any question of its receiving any kind of training. So what is the knowledge that makes this insect act in accordance with a specific aim? 
\par The second important detail is the technical equipment the mosquito uses when conducting its research. The mosquito is created with an organ that is in exactly the right place to give an accurate assessment of heat and moisture. 
\par But how did the mosquito come to acquire such an organ? Did the mosquito decide to fix a kind of \'93detector\'94 to its body as a resul
t of its observations and trials on the needs of its young? And then on the basis of this decision, did it make some changes to its own body? Or was it part of the imaginary \'93evolutionary process\'94
 that one day quite by chance an organ, which again by chance is capable of measuring heat and moisture, was appended to the body of the first mosquito to appear on the scene? 
\par Naturally, none of these scenarios is plausible. They evoke hundreds of questions that invalidate the evolutionists\rquote  explanation of coincidence. Given the impossibility of the evolutionists\rquote 
 claims let us further emphasise their lack of logic by supposing that this organ appeared by chance. First of all, it is not only this sensitive receptor of the mosquito that needs to be perfect but all t
he other organs too. Because, an organ that is not in perfect working order or which makes incomplete measurements, for example only of moisture or heat, is of no use, for it would lead to the extinction of the species. 
\par The next question that springs to mind is \'93How did the mosquito find out what this organ is for and how to use it?\'94 
\par }{\f0\fs22\expnd-1\expndtw-5\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 It is obvious that the mosquito is not able to install a special scanner in its own body any more than it can pass on information to future generations regarding the purpose 
and use of this scanner.}{\f0\fs22\expnd-1\expndtw-5\insrsid15433267\charrsid15433267  }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par There is a perfect harmony in the characteristics of the mosquito, which could not be the product of coincidence. As will be seen from the examples given on the following pages, the mosquito has to emerge in a fully-fledged state,
 or it would not be possible for it to live. This means that the mosquito is created. It is God Who creates the mosquito in its perfect form. Each characteristic of the mosquito acquaints us with the incomparable creative art of God. In the following vers
es of the Qur\rquote an, God gives an example to illustrate the perfection in His creation:
\par }\pard\plain \s18\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \b\f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\insrsid3351242 
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 It was He Who created the seven heavens one above the other. You will not find any flaw in the creation of the All-Merciful. Look again}{\b0\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 \emdash }{
\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 do you see any gaps? Then look again and again. Your eyes will in the end be dazzled and exhausted! (Qur\rquote an, 67:3-4)}{\f0\fs22\insrsid1903720 
\par }\pard \s18\qc \fi567\li0\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid3351242 {\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 \page }{\f0\fs36\insrsid3626024\charrsid3351242 SKILLS OF THE MOSQUITO
\par }\pard \s18\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 {\b0\f0\fs22\expnd17\expndtw85\insrsid3351242 
\par 
\par }{\b0\f0\fs22\expnd17\expndtw85\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 S}{\b0\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
hortly after the building of an electricity generation plant in Canada in the 1920s, all its generators broke down. This was caused by hundreds of thousands of mosquitoes congesting the engines of the generators. So what was it that attracted the mosquito
es to the generators? A short time after the generators were cleaned, the same thing happened again and the problem was solved by calling in a mosquito expert. 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
The mosquitoes invading the generators were all males. The reason was that they thought that the
re were females in the machines ready to mate with them. They had confused the whirring sounds made by the generators with the buzzing of females. When the speed of the generators was adjusted, the mosquitoes were no longer confused by the sound. 
\par This interesting event draws our attention to the special system that enables mosquitoes to mate. Male mosquitoes recognise females by the sounds made by their wings, and thanks to this they find the females and mate with them. 
\par }\pard\plain \qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \f8\fs24\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \b\f8\fs24\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs28\insrsid3626024\charrsid3351242 
The incomparable hearing capacity of the mosquito
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
Mosquitoes mate on the wing. However, until the males reach maturity, that is to say during the first 24 hours of their short lives, they are not able to mate, for at this stage their antennae have not yet dried out. The deaf males cannot h
ear the sound of the females\rquote  wings, that is to say the mating call.
\par Hearing is very advanced in mosquitoes. On the pair of small, hair-covered antennae on a male's head, there is an organ composed of numerous sensory cells. This system, which is known as the \'93Johnston's organ,\'94
 receives the vibrations of sound waves and differentiates between them. These hairy feelers can only perceive sound waves when they are in an upright position.}{\f0\fs22\insrsid15433267\charrsid15433267  }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par The sound produced by the wings of the female is the most important fac
tor influencing the males. The wing sounds of the females cause the receptor cells on the male antennae to vibrate and send electrical signals to his brain. The wing-beat of the females is faster than that of the males, and the vibrations produced by the 
females\rquote  wings incite the males to mate.}{\f0\fs22\insrsid15433267\charrsid15433267  }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par Let\rquote s think about the sounds we can hear on a summer day when there are plenty of mosquitoes around... traffic noise, people talking, animal sounds, in short a multitude of sounds, some of which are audible and some
 of which are inaudible to the human ear, depending upon their frequencies. It should be quite difficult for the male to pick out the sound of the female beating her wings in the midst of this tumult of sounds. However, the sensitive \'93ears\'94
 of the male are
 able to distinguish the sound of the female out of all these sounds and he flies straight to the female to mate. When a female flies into a crowd of mosquitoes and is noticed by one of the males, she is held by special pincers located near the male sexua
l organ and mating usually takes place in the air, but sometimes on the ground. After mating, the male returns to the flock and after a time he dies. 
\par At this point the subject should be examined in more detail. There is a very interesting system at work. The mosquito recognises the opposite sex by the beat of her wings.}{\f0\fs22\insrsid15433267\charrsid15433267  }{
\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par First of all, the female could well beat her wings more slowly and the male beat his more quickly. This creates a number of questions that need to be answered by evolutionary theory, which puts the characteristics of living things down to coincidence.}{
\f0\fs22\insrsid15433267\charrsid15433267  }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par If the mosquito exists as a result of coincidence, it would be expected that the wings of each mosquito would beat at a random speed. For there is no reason necessitating the wings of the male
 to beat more slowly and those of the female to beat more quickly. However, each mosquito beats its wings at a specific speed to distinguish its sex as though it is conforming to some order. In fact this frequency difference has no meaning just by itself.
 
If the male mosquito were not created with such a superior sense of hearing, this beating of the wings would have no meaning. The vibrations produced by the female mosquito would be as meaningless to the male mosquito as they are to humans. In such a situ
ation, mating would not take place due to the male\rquote s inability to perceive the female. 
\par Without a doubt the opposite could also be possible. If the male had an excellent sense of hearing, but if all mosquitoes, whether male or female, beat their wings at di
fferent frequencies, the perceptive ability of the male would be rendered useless. This would mean the extinction of the mosquito at the first generation in both scenarios. 
\par This clearly shows us that the system enabling mosquitoes to recognise one another
 for the purpose of mating has had to function perfectly since the very first pair of mosquitoes. Thus the only explanation for the sudden emergence of such a finely tuned system is an intelligent design. God created the mosquito with this special system 
already in-built.
\par }\pard\plain \qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \f8\fs24\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\b\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \b\f8\fs24\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs28\insrsid3626024\charrsid3351242 
Reflecting on the evidence of creation
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
The mosquito is one of the proofs of creation mentioned in the Qur\rquote an. God creates boundless evidence to remind man of His existence and His omnipotence. It is of the utmost importance to be 
aware of this fact, to reflect on it and to acknowledge God\rquote 
s power. Each person has a duty to reflect on the evidence of creation and live his life with the consciousness of the true purpose of his existence. The fact that man can discover this purpose through reflection is contained in a verse of the Qur\rquote 
an:
\par }\pard\plain \s18\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \b\f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\insrsid3351242 
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 Have they not travelled about the Earth and do they not have hearts to understand with or ears to hear with? It is not their eyes which are blind but the hearts in their breasts which are blind. (Qur\rquote 
an, 22:46)
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\insrsid3351242 
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 It is very easy for a person to comprehend God\rquote s existence. In the Qur\rquote 
an, Prophet Abraham (pbuh) is given as an example of this. Prophet Abraham (pbuh) acknowledges as a matter of conscience that there is only one God. In spite of his polythe
istic tribe, this noble person gave up the idols worshipped by his tribe and devoted himself to God alone. The following verses of the Qur\rquote an tell us of Prophet Abraham\rquote s (pbuh) certainty in his faith in God: 
\par }\pard\plain \s18\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \b\f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\insrsid3351242 
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 Because of that We showed Abraham the dominions of the heavens and the Earth so that he might become a firm believer. When night drew its shadow over him, he saw a star and said, \'93This is my Lord!\'94
 Then when it faded in the morning light, he said, \'93I will not worship gods that fade.\'94 Then when he saw the moon come up he said, \'93This is my Lord!\'94 But then when it set, he said, \'93If my Lord does not guide me, I shall surely go astray.
\'94 Then when he saw the Sun come up he said, \'93This is my Lord! This is greater!\'94 But when it set he said to his people, \'93I a
m done with your idols. I will turn my face to Him Who has created the heavens and the Earth and will live a righteous life. I am no idolater.\'94 (Qur'an, 6:75-79)
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\insrsid3351242 
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 As in the example of Prophet Abraham (pbuh), it is self-evident that people of conscience can
 reflect on the existence of God. People who know this truth have the duty of living their lives in a way that is pleasing to God. God tells us in verses of the Qur\rquote 
an that a brief life of six to seven decades in this world should not be preferred to eternal life in the Hereafter: 
\par }\pard\plain \s18\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \b\f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\insrsid3351242 
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 The life of this world is nothing but a game and a diversion. Surely, the Hereafter is better for those who guard against evil. So will you not use your intellect? (Qur\rquote an, 6:32)
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\insrsid3351242 
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 He who is conscious of having been created as God\rquote 
s creature and who therefore lives his life in a way that is pleasing to our Lord lives a good life on Earth and may also hope for eternal life in Paradise. }{\f0\fs22\insrsid1903720 
\par }\pard \s15\qc \fi567\li0\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid3351242 {\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 \page }{\b\f0\fs36\insrsid3626024\charrsid3351242 PHASES OF DEVELOPMENT
\par }\pard \s15\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 {\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024 
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3351242\charrsid15433267 
\par }{\f0\fs22\expnd17\expndtw85\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 A}{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 fter mating, the female mosquito store
s the sperm in a special pouch and can lay the fertilised eggs over a period of weeks. The female starts drinking blood from the time of mating, as blood is essential for the development of the eggs. 
\par On examination of these characteristics, the miracle in the mosquito takes on a new direction. 
\par }\pard\plain \qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \f8\fs24\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \b\f8\fs24\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs28\insrsid3626024\charrsid3351242 
The miraculous eggs that can halt their development
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
Animals are able to perform with surprising ease many things that would seem impossible for man to achieve.
 For example, a human pregnancy cannot be prolonged, but certain creatures are able to do this. One such creature is the mosquito. Even though the time to lay the eggs has come, some mosquitoes lay their eggs not after the first rain, but after the second
 or third. This prudence is a way of protecting the mosquitoes\rquote  progeny. 
\par There is an important reason for mosquitoes delaying the laying of their eggs. There is a high probability of the moisture and puddles left by the first rain drying up in a short time
. This means that the larvae would be left on dry ground and so would be unable to develop. This is only a probability, but the mosquito acts as though it has prior knowledge of this probability and behaves with great wisdom. It is not taken in by the fir
st rain, but waits for the next downpour. 
\par This situation brings several questions to mind:
\par How does the mosquito know that the moisture content of the ground may not be adequate after the first rain and that the puddles may dry up in a short time? In order
 for the mosquito to take such a precaution, it should be aware of the effect of evaporation and say to itself: \'93
This is just the first rain and in time the water in the earth and on its surface will evaporate, so I should wait a bit longer to lay my eggs.\'94
\par The mosquito cannot acquire this knowledge through experience, for at the first trial the eggs would dry up and the new generation would be wiped out. For the success of the species, the mosquito must have some knowledge on the subject, but it is obvious
 that it cannot acquire this by itself. 
\par Such examples are given to help better understand the situation, but as has already been mentioned, the mosquito has no capacity for learning. Nevertheless, the mosquito makes an extremely appropriate and far-sighte
d decision, which saves the lives of the next generation. 
\par At this point it is worth dwelling on a very important question. How is knowledge passed on from generation to generation? If the newborn in question were a human being, its education would take ye
ars. Everything it knows would be taken from the experience of life and education gained after birth. However, every female mosquito, whose entire life consists of only a few weeks, has the knowledge it needs from the very beginning of its life. Who taugh
t it this knowledge? On whose orders do mosquitoes act?
\par Although these questions on the breeding of mosquitoes are of little interest to most people, the answer constitutes a very important subject, which is of interest to everyone.}{\f0\fs22\insrsid15433267\charrsid15433267  }{
\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par The mosquito, in common
 with all other living creatures, acts on the inspiration of God, Lord of the heavens and the Earth. This is the only true answer. Every living creature including man is under the control of God, whether or not it is aware of this. This is expressed as fo
llows in a verse of the Qur\rquote an:
\par }\pard\plain \s18\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \b\f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 \'93
I have put my trust in God, my Lord and your Lord. There is no living creature on Earth whose destiny He does not control. Straight is the path of my Lord.\'94 (Qur\rquote an, 11:56)
\par }\pard\plain \qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \f8\fs24\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\b\f0\fs22\insrsid1903720 
\par }{\b\f0\fs28\insrsid3626024\charrsid3351242 Managing to survive difficult times\'85
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 Mosquitoes la
y their eggs in the summer months or in autumn. The temperature of the place they find to lay their eggs is an important factor in the development of the larvae. Development is speeded up when a certain temperature is reached (minimum 10\'b0C [50\'b0
F], maximum 30\'b0C [86\'b0F]), and if these limits are exceeded, development slows down or the larvae die.}{\f0\fs22\insrsid15433267\charrsid15433267  }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par Although the larvae are vulnerable, the eggs are quite resilient to drought and cold. If the right conditions are not available, the eggs can wait for rain and rising temperatures without cracking. 
\par You have just read this sentence and if you are an observant person, you must have noticed the mention of the fact that "the eggs can wait without cracking.\'94 Although their time has come to hatch, the eggs can wait without cracking\'85
\par If the right conditions are not available, the eggs\rquote  development is halted. This is not a kind of death, but just a precaution taken until conditions improve. This delayed action, which is usually seen at the egg stage, is referred to as \'93diapau
se.\'94
\par At times when there is not enough moisture and heat for the eggs to grow, they stop developing and can keep for years without spoiling. There is a kind of heat-moisture safety fuse in the eggs. When the conditions are wrong, the fuse blows and the egg
\rquote s development programme is put on hold.}{\f0\fs22\insrsid15433267\charrsid15433267  }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par Actually it is not quite right to call this \'93stopping the programme,\'94 because waiting for the right conditions is part of the programme. (This little creature said to contain a programme is approximately 1 mm [0.04 inch] in length\emdash 
about the size of the point of a pencil.)
\par Whatever source you look at on this subject, the result is the same; it is agreed that the embryos act in accordance with a programme. This is a development programme, which takes place in the abdomen of the mother or in the egg, and in one respect resemb
les a computer programme. All the details of the programme are written into DNA molecules contained in the cell nucleus. 
\par The differences between a mosquito and a human or an elephant and a parrot arise from this different programming in the cells. At first
 glance there seems to be little difference between a newly fertilised animal cell and a newly fertilised human cell. But each cell divides strictly according to the programme written into it. Living species emerge as a result of these cell divisions. In 
the mosquito too the commands of this programme are obeyed and if necessary the development of the eggs is halted. 
\par At this point something should be explained: How has this embryonic programme been created? Who makes the programme and tells the embryo how to act?}{\f0\fs22\insrsid15433267\charrsid15433267  }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par Each one of the cells making up the embryo complies with the programme and acts jointly to stop the development.}{\f0\fs22\insrsid15433267\charrsid15433267  }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par If there is a programme, there must be a programming intelligence that wrote it. It is inconceivable to claim that even the simplest 
computer programme wrote itself, that is to say, as a result of information coming together by chance. In that case, of course, it is far more unreasonable to claim that an embryonic programme as yet unsolved by the human mind could have been produced as 
a result of coincidence. 
\par There is only one explanation for this extraordinary event. It is because all the cells act on the inspiration of God that they can make such conscious moves.}{\f0\fs22\insrsid15433267\charrsid15433267  }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par Let us now leave the subject of the halting of the mosquito egg\rquote s development and return to the subject of waiting for a suitable environment.}{\f0\fs22\insrsid15433267\charrsid15433267  }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par This feature is of vital importance from the perspective of continuation of the species. For example, one variety of desert mosquito lays thick-skinned eggs that can crack after a per
iod of one or two years. These eggs survive for years without spoiling and then split open for the larvae inside to continue their development as though nothing unusual has happened. 
\par Due to this resilience, mosquitoes can be found in almost every part of the world. Mosquitoes can live in places where the arctic temperature falls to -60\'b0C (-76\'b0
F), in the humid, hot and airless atmosphere of mines, or in deserts where, apart from two or three wells, there is no other water supply for miles. 
\par In the north of Iceland at the Arctic Circle there is a lake called \'93Mosquito Lake\'94
 (Lake Myvatn). Frozen larvae found in iced-over lakes hatch from the eggs when the ice melts as if they have not been frozen in ice for months on end. Their development takes off from where it left off and they develop into mature mosquitoes. 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \b\f8\fs24\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\caps\f0\fs22\insrsid1903720 
\par 
\par }\pard \s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid3351242 {\caps\f0\fs32\insrsid3626024\charrsid3351242 Characteristics of mosquito eggs}{\f0\fs32\insrsid3626024\charrsid3351242 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\insrsid3351242 
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 Female mosquitoes can lay from 40 to 200 eggs at a time in water. There are some that lay their eggs once every three weeks and others that 
lay once a year. The mosquito eggs have different characteristics according to where the species lives, the enemies in that environment or dangers that may be encountered. Some are very carefully packaged, some are packed tightly into a space, and some ar
e supported with air pillows to prevent them from sinking.}{\f0\fs22\insrsid15433267\charrsid15433267  }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par }\pard\plain \qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \f8\fs24\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\b\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \b\f8\fs24\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs28\insrsid3626024\charrsid3351242 
Camouflage expert eggs 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
Once the eggs leave the mother\rquote s side they are left totally defenceless. At first, because of their bright yellow colour they are motionless preys, easy to spot. A great number of enemies await them. 
\par But mosquito eggs have an important characteristic. The colour of the eggs, which are laid at night, turns to black at first light. In this way they are well camouflaged from insects and birds. 
\par At the larval and pupal stages of some species of mosquito, such as the }{\i\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 anopheles}{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
, they are able to change colour to fit in with their environment. So if the larva is put in a black or white environment, it immediately takes on the colour of that environment. 
\par Naturally neither the egg n
or the larva, or even the mother mosquito who has gone through these stages, has any knowledge of this colour change. The mosquito larvae have absolutely no idea that there are enemies around them, that the mother has left them and that they are alone and
 defenceless. But this situation doesn\rquote 
t pose any problems for them, because they have been created with the most suitable form of defence, as well as their other needs being met. The pigments in the outer layer of the eggs or larvae are activated by sunlig
ht and camouflage themselves by growing darker. 
\par The changing of colour to merge with the environment by the effect of photons emitted by the Sun is a somewhat complex chemical process, and the knowledge of this system is already installed in the cells of 
the egg shell. All the necessary chemical and physical processes for this effective form of defence are realised without exception in all mosquito larvae. All these facts lead us to only one conclusion: The creator of this finely planned process to protec
t the larvae in case of need has superior power. This power belongs to God, the Creator of all things. This is set forth as follows in a verse of the Qur\rquote an:
\par }\pard\plain \s18\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \b\f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\insrsid1589504 
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 That is God, your Lord. There is no deity but Him, the Creator of everything. So worship Him. He is responsible for everything. (Qur\rquote an, 6:102)
\par }\pard\plain \qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \f8\fs24\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\b\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \b\f8\fs24\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs28\insrsid3626024\charrsid1589504 Unsinkable eggs

\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
The underside of the egg of the }{\i\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 Culex }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 mosquito has a funnel-shaped hollow. The purpose of this 
hollow may not be obvious at first sight, but in further stages of the egg\rquote s development it emerges that it has a vital function. Thanks to the air filling the hollow it acts as a life buoy and keeps the eggs afloat. 
\par However, the hollow can lead to serious problems for the egg. The hollow located under the egg, which can be termed a \'93life buoy,\'94 can easily be rendered useless if the egg \'93capsizes.\'94
 For this reason a single egg laid on the water cannot float for long. If its balance is disturbed by the slig
htest rocking motion, it will overturn and the air-filled hollow will fill with water causing the egg to sink. However, in order to survive, the eggs have to stay above water. What would you do in this situation to stop the eggs sinking?}{
\f0\fs22\insrsid15433267\charrsid15433267  }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par Mosquitoes solve 
this problem in an ingenious way by sticking the eggs together. The eggs are stuck side by side into a disc shape and form a natural floating raft. This disc, which is about 11 mm (0.43 inch) in diameter, can easily float on water. The hollows under the e
ggs and the spaces between the eggs serve as an air pillow to keep the disc afloat. If such a clever method were not employed, the eggs would sink and die. However, the danger is averted right from the start and security provided by this design detail. 

\par So how is it that a mosquito can think about a problem and find the most appropriate solution? Is it possible for the mosquito to know about the buoyancy of water? Where does it get the knowledge of how to use this force?}{
\f0\fs22\insrsid15433267\charrsid15433267  }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par However impossible it may be, let\rquote s 
suppose that the mosquito comes up with the solution for itself by observing other eggs and thinking about it at length. Even if that were the case, if there was no air hollow under the egg from the time it was laid, the mosquito\rquote 
s raft would be useless. 
\par What\rquote s more, the mosquito is also created with an adhesive for sticking the eggs together, which is not dissolved by water over time. If it were not for this glue, there would be no meaning to the airspace under the egg or the mosquito\rquote 
s decision to make a raft. 
\par Of course, there is also a reason for the raft made by the mosquito being disc-shaped. The disc shape is the most suitable for a raft. If the mosquito used another geometric shape, for example, a long, narrow rectangle, the raft could easily capsiz
e. But the disc-shape best protects the raft from capsizing if the water is rippled. 
\par It is not possible to claim that the details, which together make up such a harmonious system, could have evolved of their own accord over time. Furthermore, if one of th
ese details were missing, it would not be possible to go back over the whole system again and it would be destroyed. The mosquito makes a raft which it cannot develop by means of \'93trial and error\'94
 and which certainly could not have been produced as a resul
t of coincidence. Thus the sole explanation for this system is that this creature, which makes a raft just a few weeks at most after hatching from the egg, is endowed with the necessary knowledge and constitution for this task and has been \'93programmed
\'94 for it.}{\f0\fs22\insrsid15433267\charrsid15433267  }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par It is quite a painstaking task to stick eggs together one by one and make a raft. And since these eggs will split open in the next season, the mosquito will die without seeing the result of its labour. After laying the eggs it has no further ties wit
h the eggs. The mosquito, which will shortly die, goes to great lengths at no personal gain to ensure the safety of its eggs after its death.}{\f0\fs22\insrsid15433267\charrsid15433267  }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par }{\f0\fs22\expnd-1\expndtw-5\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 Something that is really worthy of note at this point is that the mosquito has absolutely nothing to gain in spit
e of all its effort. The laborious task it carries out has no effect on its own life. That is to say, the mosquito doesn\rquote 
t go to these lengths to stay alive, but to save the next generation. It makes the most appropriate decision and does all the necessary
 things to perfection to succeed in a difficult task to save a generation it will never see, and will never know what conditions it will develop under and what dangers it will face.}{\f0\fs22\expnd-1\expndtw-5\insrsid15433267\charrsid15433267  }{
\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par Those who defend evolutionary theory claim that creatures exist because of coincidence, and suggest that there is a selfish struggle for life in nature. If this claim were true, the mosquito could be expected to take no interest in its young, to lay the e
g
gs in any place and to make no effort to defend them and supply other needs. But as we can see from the information which has been provided so far, the mosquito does not behave in this way and puts a lot of effort into a job whose results it will never se
e. 
\par It is quite plain to see that there is no struggle for life in the mosquito. The common-sense actions it takes are made under the inspiration it is provided with. It is God Who gives this sense of self-sacrifice to the mosquito. In the following verse o
f the Qur\rquote an, God explains how everything is submissive to Him:
\par }\pard\plain \s18\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \b\f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\insrsid1589504 
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 Everyone in the heavens and on the Earth belongs to Him. All are submissive to Him. It is He Who originated creation and then regenerates it. That is very easy for Him. His is the most exalte
d designation in the heavens and the Earth. He is the Almighty, the All-Wise. (Qur\rquote an, 30:26-27)
\par }\pard\plain \s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \b\f8\fs24\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs28\insrsid1589504 
\par }{\f0\fs28\insrsid3626024\charrsid1589504 Gelatin-covered eggs 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
Over the last ten years, effective methods have been developed for the preservation of foodstuffs. The most important of these is packaging. 
\par The variety of midge known as the }{\i\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 Chironomidae}{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267  (in the same order, }{\i\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 Diptera}{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
, as mosquitoes) uses this method to preserve its eggs. 
\par The eggs are laid in a pile of gelatin-like substance, either in the shape of a frame or a string. The gelatin mass protects the eggs from being blown away, from drying up, from sudden changes in temperature and from enemies. In addition, thanks to this s
ubstance the fly sticks the eggs to plants or stones and thus also prevents the eggs from getting lost in the water. 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \b\f8\fs24\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs28\insrsid3626024\charrsid1589504 Life buoy eggs

\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 The eggs of the }{
\i\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 Anopheles}{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267  mosquitoes, which serve as vectors for malaria, have a special shape and structure to prevent the
ir sinking and enable them to stay on the surface of the water. Little air chambers on the outside of the eggshell and floating edges surrounding the egg keep it above water. The floating edges increase the surface tension of the water and thanks to this 
tension the egg does not sink. 
\par Surface tension creates a force, which small creatures in particular cannot pass through. However, this is not usually a bad thing as it enables insects to walk on the water with ease. Thanks to support structures found on th
e legs of some insects, such as little hairs or oily secretions covering the feet, they are able to move much more easily on the surface of water. 
\par The air chambers and floating edges on the eggs of the }{\i\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 Anopheles}{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267  mosquito make great use of the physical law
 of surface tension. However, as has already been mentioned, neither the larvae inside the eggs nor the mother mosquito, who herself once hatched from one of these eggs, has any knowledge of the surface tension or the structures on the eggs that make use 
of it.}{\f0\fs22\insrsid15433267\charrsid15433267  }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par There is no possibility of such an attribute being acquired over time. If this structure had failed to appear on the egg just once, all the }{\i\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 Anopheles}{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
 eggs would have sunk to the bottom of the water and the mosquito would have died out.}{\f0\fs22\insrsid15433267\charrsid15433267  }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par But such a situation never happens. For the }{\i\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 Anopheles}{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
 mosquitoes, like all other creatures, come to life complete with whatever they need to continue their existence designed in the most appropriate way.}{\f0\fs22\insrsid15433267\charrsid15433267  }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par God has created the characteristics needed by each creature and
 has inspired perfectly in each of them the tasks they will carry out. God has power over all things. The duty that befalls man is to reflect on the perfection of His creation and to deliver himself to His eternal might. God tells us in a verse of the Qur
\rquote an that there is no other deity: 
\par }\pard\plain \s18\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \b\f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\insrsid1589504 
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 Say: \'93Who is the Lord of the heavens and the Earth?\'94 Say: \'93God.\'94 Say: \'93So why have you taken protectors apart from Him who possess no power to help or harm even themselves?\'94 Say: \'93
Are the blind and seeing equal? Or are darkness and light the same? Or have they assigned partners to God who create as He creates, so that all creating seems the same to them?\'94 Say: \'93
God is the Creator of all things. He is the One, Who conquers all.\'94 (Qur\rquote an, 13:16)
\par }\pard\plain \s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \b\f8\fs24\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs28\insrsid1589504 
\par }{\f0\fs28\insrsid3626024\charrsid1589504 Bamboo mosquitoes
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 Some mosqu
tio species lay their eggs in bamboo stems, which provide for the larvae a safe environment that also meets their other needs.}{\f0\fs22\insrsid15433267\charrsid15433267  }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par Like other mosquitoes, these mosquitoes have a unique method of egg laying. The mosquito sticks its rear legs through the holes 
of bamboo stems into the water left inside and thus assures itself that the eggs will drop into water, where they will continue their development.}{\f0\fs22\insrsid15433267\charrsid15433267  }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par When the first rain falls the eggs go into the incubation phase. Within 2-3 days of the eggs being laid, the
 incubation phase comes to an end and the grubs start to hatch. The grubs inside the eggs mature and hatch at practically the same moment. Within a minute all the grubs start wandering around in the water. They move around non-stop, eating virtually anyth
ing they come across and grow at an incredible rate.}{\f0\fs22\insrsid15433267\charrsid15433267  }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par Was it the ancestors of these species of mosquito that concluded from their observations that the most secure place for their young was bamboo stems and then decided that all descendants should use the s
ame method? Was this order then passed on from generation to generation to every new female? 
\par As we have seen, such questions inevitably confront us at every stage. The answers to these questions lead every person with a conscience to one point: the fact o
f creation. In a little water collected in some bamboo stem in some part of the world or other, there is a life form that we do not know about, that we have not even thought about, and this life form has been created in a perfect manner. This perfect crea
tion encompasses the entire universe.}{\f0\fs22\insrsid15433267\charrsid15433267  }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par God points out in a verse of the Qur\rquote an the importance of thinking about His creations:
\par }\pard\plain \s18\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \b\f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\insrsid1589504 
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 \'85 And the water which God sends down from the sky}{\b0\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 \emdash }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
by which He brings the Earth to life when it was dead and scatters about on it creatures of every kind}{\b0\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 \emdash and the varying directions of the winds, and the clouds subservient between heaven and earth, }{
\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 there are signs for people who use their intellect. (Qur\rquote an, 2:164)
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid1589504 
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 And in your creation and all the creatures He has spread about far and near there are signs for true believers. (Qur\rquote an, 45:4)
\par }\pard\plain \s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \b\f8\fs24\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\caps\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par 
\par }\pard \s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid1589504 {\caps\f0\fs32\insrsid3626024\charrsid1589504 CHANGE IN The appearance of the eggs: 
\par the larval phase}{\f0\fs32\insrsid3626024\charrsid1589504 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par The young mosquito newly emerged from the egg bears no resemblance to the mature state. It is as though it is a completely different creature. The body of the larva is approximately 1-1.5 mm (0.04-0.05 inch) in length and is divided into 3 sections consis
t
ing of the head, the thorax and the abdomen. The head is oval-shaped with eyes on either side that meet in the middle, with a short antenna above each eye. But the larva has to go through a long and difficult journey before it turns into a mature mosquito
. 
\par The larvae live underwater. Because they eat constantly, they enlarge 6-7 times in the space of a week. This is the only time in the mosquito\rquote s life cycle that it grows. The larva is just hungry, eats and gets bigger. 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \b\f8\fs24\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par }{\f0\fs28\insrsid3626024\charrsid1589504 How does the larva feed in the water?
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
In this phase in order to breathe the larva has to remain suspended over the water without drowning. But there is a problem: How can a mosquito, which constantly needs to feed, get food when it is constantly suspended above water? A special method has 
to be found for this, but the creature in question is only a larva, with no capacity to think or develop a method.}{\f0\fs22\insrsid15433267\charrsid15433267  }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par }{\f0\fs22\expnd-1\expndtw-5\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 If necessity dictates, the larva can dive into the water, but only for a short time because it has to come up to the surface to breathe. For
 this reason, it is impossible to feed by diving in this way.}{\f0\fs22\expnd-1\expndtw-5\insrsid15433267\charrsid15433267  }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par A very important mechanism present in the larva allows it to eat head-down in the water. Thanks to this mechanism, the larva, which cannot go after its prey, agitates the water and brings prey 
to its mouth. It creates a current in the water by the rapid shaking of the 4 sets of fine-haired brushes on either side of its mouth. Bacteria found in the water are thus guided into the larva\rquote 
s mouth by the motion of the water. The larva also eats the bacteria that get stuck in these brushes. A mosquito larva can sieve about 100-1,000 cc of water a day by this method. 
\par As we have seen, there is an evident design in the larva: the brushes around its mouth are special feeding tools. Thanks to this system th
e larva can reach its prey without drowning. In His boundless compassion, Almighty God manifests Himself as the Provider (}{\i\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 al-Razzaq}{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
) of all Creation, and protects the mosquito larvae. God has indeed created all creatures to perfection. And every living creature is provided for by God:
\par }\pard\plain \s18\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \b\f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\insrsid1589504 
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 How many creatures cannot fend for themselves! God provides for them as He provides for you. He is the All-Hearing, the All-Knowing. (Qur\rquote an, 29:60)
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \b\f8\fs24\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs28\insrsid3626024\charrsid1589504 Breathing head-down

\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
One of the basic needs of the constantly feeding larva is breathing. But how is it that the larva is able not only to breathe but also eat while it is suspended upside-down?
\par Human beings make use of various special devices for breathing underwater (oxygen cylinders, snorkels, air pumps, etc.). Mosquito larvae,
 on the other hand, are naturally equipped with diving equipment similar to these. When they are head-down in the water, they breathe through respiratory tubes located on their hind bodies. Some larvae stay parallel to the water and use three respiration 
holes on the stomach. These systems resemble the snorkels and air pumps used by divers. 
\par These features may seem like mere biological details to us, but actually they reveal an important fact. If such an intelligent design exists, there must be a Creator wi
th a superior intelligence. This Supreme Creator, the Lord of the universe, is God, the judge, the educator and the planner of all the worlds from the smallest to the greatest.
\par God shows evidence of His existence to us by making His art manifest in all the
 life forms He has created. This art is plain to see everywhere, from the complex structure of the human brain to the infinity of space, from the digestive system of the mosquito to the perfection of the human body and microscopic creatures.}{
\f0\fs22\insrsid15433267\charrsid15433267  }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par In the 40th verse of Surah Fatir in the Qur\rquote an, God says the following:
\par }\pard\plain \s18\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \b\f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\insrsid1589504 
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 Say: \'93Have you thought about your partner deities, those you call upon besides God? Show me what they have created of the Earth; or do they have a partnership in the heavens?\'94 Have We
 given them a Book whose Clear Signs they follow? No indeed! The wrongdoers promise each other nothing but delusion. (Qur\rquote an, 35:40)
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \b\f8\fs24\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs28\insrsid3626024\charrsid1589504 
What if water gets into the snorkel?
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
Thanks to snorkel-like organs, the mosquito larvae can carry on their lives in the wa
ter with ease. However, there is a danger inherent in breathing through a snorkel. Waves forming on the water or the effect of wind can result in water getting into the snorkel and therefore the mosquito drowning.}{
\f0\fs22\insrsid15433267\charrsid15433267  }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par However, thanks to an important preventat
ive measure, the mosquito is protected from being harmed by this potential danger. The end of the snorkel that comes into contact with the air is covered with a special kind of oil. This oil has a water repellent (hydrophobic) property. When the larva is 
suspended head-down in the water, the oil prevents water getting through the hole of the respiratory tube. 
\par This secretion is specially created for water. When the larva is put into a fluid other than water, for example petroleum, the secretion fails to function. Petroleum gets into the snorkel and causes the larva to drown. 
\par The fact that the tip of the respiratory tube of a 10 mm (0.4 inch) larva is just a few millimetres in length is not something that can be passed over lightly. Let\rquote s point out the details:
\par -there is a special precautionary measure to eliminate the risk of water getting into the snorkel,
\par -the secretion is produced exactly where it is needed, i.e. by the cells at the tip of the air tube,
\par -this oily secretion is produced in every new generation...
\par }{\f0\fs22\expnd-1\expndtw-5\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
Can these factors be explained by coincidence? Of course not, because coincidence causes confusion. Millions of coincidences happening one after another would mean chaos. Systems and mechanisms consisting of independent parts working in unison for 
a common aim are not the product of chaos but of intelligent design.}{\f0\fs22\expnd-1\expndtw-5\insrsid15433267\charrsid15433267  }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par Evolutionary theory makes the assertion that living things have evolved over time from a simpler form to their present state. According to this theory, this development occurs as a result of a chain of coincidental changes. 
\par However much you try to dress this up as \'93scientific,\'94 using Latin names and complex terminology, the essential logic of evolutionary theory can be expressed in a single word: \'93Coincidence.\'94
\par Now let\rquote s have a look at the claims evolutionary theory makes about how the special structure enabling mosquitoes to breathe was formed. 
\par According to evolutionary theory, thousands of years ago mosquitoes must have had a simpler structure. In this imaginary scenario, let\rquote s suppose
 that the respiratory tubes of the mosquitoes of the time had not yet developed. So what about the mosquito larvae of the time?
\par 1) The larva could not stay head-down in the water, so they would hold their heads above water in order to breathe. The inevitable conclusion of this would be, of course, that all the larvae die of hunger. 
\par 2) Let\rquote s suppose that a respiratory tube is appended to the body of the larva by chance (we will discuss the impossibility of this later), the larvae would drown due to the abse
nce of oil at the tip of the tube to prevent water getting into it. The larva would not even have a second to wait for the cells, which synthesise this oil to form in the body. As has been demonstrated, this state of affairs creates inconsistencies in evo
lutionary theory itself. 
\par 3) Let\rquote s suppose that the respiratory tube and the oil at the tip of this tube somehow formed at the same time on the larva\rquote s body. It would only save the life of that particular larva, because the larva would not be able to pass o
n a change in its body to the next generation (Just as a woman who cuts off her finger does not give birth to a child with a missing finger). Therefore, in order for a bodily change to be passed on to the next generation, it is necessary for evolution to 
add the entire genetic code to the DNA located in the creature\rquote s reproductive cells, rather than just creating a new organ or organelle.}{\f0\fs22\insrsid15433267\charrsid15433267  }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par This is a very important point. For this reason, let\rquote s examine the subject by means of another example. Let\rquote s suppose t
hat a new organ, for example a liver, was appended to the body of a creature claimed by the evolutionists to be one of the ancestors of man. The liver\rquote 
s genetic code consists of millions of ciphers. Every one of these ciphers has to be added to the DNA in 
the reproductive cells of the creature for a liver to emerge in the next generation. One single mistake in the millions of ciphers would result in the liver not being formed, or not being able to function and being harmful rather than beneficial to the an
imal. The imaginary creature in question would not be able to survive and would die out.}{\f0\fs22\insrsid15433267\charrsid15433267  }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par This brings us to another point. What would the creature in question do until the liver formed in its body? Which organ would carry out the vital functions performed b
y the liver? Obviously, it is illogical even to think that such a creature may have existed. The first human being came into the world perfectly formed, which means that he must have been created.
\par In the same way, the mosquito also has to carry the charact
eristics it possesses in the form of genetic coding in its DNA. Otherwise these characteristics would not appear in the next generation. The genetic coding of not only the respiratory tube but also of the oil produced by the cells at the tip of this tube 
w
ould have to be introduced simultaneously, completely and faultlessly into the reproductive cells of the imaginary creature supposed to be the ancestor of the mosquito, which is an impossibility. This means once again that the mosquito came into existence
 perfectly formed, i.e. it was created. 
\par So how does the mosquito distribute the air it breathes throughout its body?
\par The air taken in by the mos
quito fills two small sacs. These little sacs are connected to capillary lines running along the body, which carry the air to all body parts. Between the sacs is a heart, which is appropriate for the needs of the mosquito. The heart pumps the sacs with re
gular beats and enables air to be distributed throughout the body.}{\f0\fs22\insrsid15433267\charrsid15433267  }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par After the heart come the stomach and the intestines. The heart, stomach and intestines also have to be perfect in shape. Along with the respiratory system, these organs are essential for th
e mosquito to survive. The mosquito has to exist as an integral whole; it is not possible for the features it possesses to be acquired over a period of time. 
\par Moreover, these features show variety in each species of mosquito. For example, the larva of the }{\i\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 Mansonia }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
variety does not come up to the surface to breathe. Instead it uses a clever but somewhat difficult method.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \b\f8\fs24\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs28\insrsid3626024\charrsid1589504 
Larva that breathes without coming up to the 
\par surface of the water
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
Oxygen found in water is dissolved in the water and utilised by all the creatures living in it, both fauna and flora. This oxygen accumulates in the roots and tissues of plants. The larvae of the mosquito }{\i\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
Mansonia}{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267  make use of this oxygen \'93packaged\'94 in plants. The larva has a saw-like organ for boring into the roots and tissue
 of plants to draw out their oxygen content. By means of this it can comfortably meet its oxygen requirements and remain permanently below water. 
\par Here, again, there is obvious evidence of a design. The structure of the }{\i\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 Mansonia}{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267  larva, which does not come 
up to the surface of the water, contains everything that is required for piercing the roots and extracting the air they contain.}{\f0\fs22\insrsid15433267\charrsid15433267  }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par What is more, the larva is aware of why it has been given this \'93tool\'94 as part of its body. But the larva\rquote s knowledge is not ju
st confined to this. The larva also knows somehow that it needs oxygen and that the oxygen is to be found in the roots of plants. Naturally, the fact that a larva only 1.5 mm (0.5 inch) in length, that has only just come into the world, has all this knowl
edge cannot be explained away by claiming that it is coincidence. 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \b\f8\fs24\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs28\insrsid3626024\charrsid1589504 Close enemy
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
It would not be accurate to describe all mosquito larvae as calm creatures that swim around in the water minding their own business making do with bacteria for food. Larvae of s
ome species are somewhat predatory. Feeding continuously at this stage, they may eat one another when they are unable to find food. For this reason, the best kind of water for the larva\rquote 
s welfare is not clean water but dirty water full of bacteria. When in clean water, only a few larvae may survive out of the hatchlings from the raft-like group of eggs.}{\f0\fs22\insrsid15433267\charrsid15433267  }{
\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par However, the mother mosquito is perfectly aware of this and is more likely to lay her eggs in dirty water, where approximately 100 larvae will emerge safe and sound from the egg-raft. 
\par It is worth pointing out at this stage that the mother\rquote s actions are also based on a conscious decision. When a mosquito comes across two sources of water, one of which is clean and the other dirty, her decision leans towards the dirty water.}{
\f0\fs22\insrsid15433267\charrsid15433267  }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par Now, does the mosquito take these measures to ensure survival of the species based on thought or observation? Of course there is no question of the mosquito gaining experience on the basis of which it makes decisions and passing on this e
xperience to future generations. }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024 
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid1589504\charrsid15433267 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \b\f8\fs24\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs28\insrsid3626024\charrsid1589504 
How to deal with a current
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
In places where there is a current, in order to survive, the growing larvae have to find something to hold on to. They easily shrug off this problem by using the support system on their bodies. 
\par Some species of larva found in very fast flowing water have a long propeller attached to their bodies at a 45-degree angle. By means of small chitin hooks located at the tip of this propeller, the larva is able to keep a grip and protect itself from the c
urrent. 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \b\f8\fs24\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs28\insrsid3626024\charrsid1589504 Mosquito house

\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
Some mosquito larvae are born architects. These larvae, which do not have suckers with which to attach themselves to surfaces, build themselves houses to protect themselves from both enemies and the current. This is an interesting 
and surprising job, for each stage is full of difficulties. 
\par First of all, the newly hatched larva has to feel the need for a house to provide security and protect it from the current, and with this in mind, to decide to build a house. 
\par }{\f0\fs22\expnd-1\expndtw-5\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 In the second phase
, the larva has to make a plan. But a problem arises: The larva has no technical equipment or organ to use as a tool such as a beak, claws, paws, etc. Moreover, there are not many suitable materials to be found underwater for constructing a house.}{
\f0\fs22\expnd-1\expndtw-5\insrsid15433267\charrsid15433267  }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par However, the larva, whose every need is thought out in advance, already has the materials necessary for house building. It secretes a gelatine-like substance, which can easily be shaped. The larva, using this material to the best advantage in a way most s
uited to its own needs, makes a nest resembling a tube, which is open on both sides. It buries this tube in the mud or the sand or carries it around. 
\par What is worth pointing out here is that the larva starts to build a house to protect itself as soon as it hatches from the egg, and it already has the necessary materials in its body, in a ready-to-use form. 
\par Obviously some kind of training, and hence a ce
rtain knowledge of chemistry, is necessary to produce a substance that can easily be shaped underwater but which remains effective in water. As the larva is not a chemist, it is not possible for it to produce the secretion using its own intelligence and k
n
owledge. It is completely senseless and illogical to consider such a possibility. Even if, in spite of the impossibility of the situation, we suppose that the larva has used its own skill and intelligence to produce such a substance, it is not feasible to
 think that it has installed the system producing the secretion in its own body. It is also obvious that it can\rquote t build such a nest and bury itself in the sand of its own accord. 
\par Even if a larva acquires these characteristics, whether by chance or by exper
ience, it cannot pass on its acquired knowledge to the next generation. If a living thing has innate knowledge, and if it uses this knowledge to best advantage and naturally possesses all the facilities and equipment to make use of this knowledge, this ca
n
 only mean one thing: All these things are achieved under the control of a superior intelligence, and are created together with this creature. The superior intelligence that gives this knowledge and attributes to the creature, that brings everything into 
existence, is our Lord. It is expressed as follows in a verse of the Qur\rquote an:
\par }\pard\plain \s18\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \b\f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\insrsid1589504 
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 \'85 Not even the smallest speck eludes your Lord, either on Earth or in heaven. Nor is there anything smaller than that, or larger, which is not recorded in a Glorious Book. (Qur\rquote an, 10:61)
\par }\pard\plain \s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid1589504 \b\f8\fs24\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs28\insrsid3626024\charrsid1589504 
\par }\pard \s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 {\f0\fs28\insrsid3626024\charrsid1589504 What happens in the water under the sun for hours?
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\expnd-1\expndtw-5\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
Up to now we have talked about how mosquitoes spend the entire larval and pupal phase in water, either on the surface or in places close to the surface. Over time this would have a negative effec
t on the larvae. However, the larvae are not in the least affected by sunlight, because any problems that could occur are solved right from the start, thanks to a pigment found in the body of the mosquito. }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 

\par This pigment sheath consists of a network of cell
s resembling urocytes almost completely filled with uric acid granules. The uric acid acts as a sunscreen for the transparent larvae and pupae, and accordingly the mosquito is able to stay in the sun without getting burnt. 
\par All the characteristics of mosquitoes serve as evidence of creation. To see this evident fact once again, let\rquote s think of it this way: Even if just this shield were to be removed from the mosquito\rquote 
s body, all the other attributes would become meaningless and the larva would burn to death in the sun. 
\par All the examples given up to now point to one reality: God, Who creates all the characteristics that make up the mosquito, has incomparable power and knowledge. There is no other deity. God informs us as follows in a verse of the Qur\rquote an that n
o partner should be associated with Him:
\par }\pard\plain \s18\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \b\f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\insrsid1589504 
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 Or have they taken other deities besides Him? Say: \'93Produce your proof! This is the message of those with me and the message of those before me.\'94
 But most of them do not know the truth, so they turn away. (Qur\rquote an, 21:24) 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \b\f8\fs24\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\caps\f0\fs22\insrsid1589504 
\par 
\par }\pard \s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid1589504 {\caps\f0\fs32\insrsid3626024\charrsid1589504 A big change: the pupal stage}{\f0\fs32\insrsid3626024\charrsid1589504 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\insrsid1589504 
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 In the majority of mosquitoes the larval phase lasts up to one week. The duration of this phase mainly depends on temperature, although feeding is also an indirect factor.}{
\f0\fs22\insrsid15433267\charrsid15433267  }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par The larva grows constantly, and in a short time its skin starts to restrict its growth. This means the time has come for the first skin to be shed.}{\f0\fs22\insrsid15433267\charrsid15433267  }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par }\pard\plain \qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \f8\fs24\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \b\f8\fs24\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs28\insrsid1589504 \page }{
\f0\fs28\insrsid3626024\charrsid1589504 The transformation begins
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
The fast-growing larva feels the need for a sharp tool to cut open its tough skin. At this stage it is impossible for the pupa to enlist any kind of assistance. It has to solve this problem by itself.}{\f0\fs22\insrsid15433267\charrsid15433267  }{
\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par Up until now, the larva has easily been able to find everything it requires at each stage of its development. God, Who does everything to perfection, has created the larva together with all the organs it needs for specific purposes.}{
\f0\fs22\insrsid15433267\charrsid15433267  }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par At the back of the larva\rquote s head there is an organ used for breaking the toug
h skin. This organ is discarded from the body as soon as the skin is shed. If this organ failed to develop, or was late in developing, the larva would be unable to cast off the skin and would suffocate to death. 
\par The new skin, which is soft and flexible, a
llows the larva to continue to grow. The mosquito larva will shed three more skins by the time it completes its growth. It develops by shedding its skin 4 times in all and finally becomes 10 mm (0.4 inch) in length.}{
\f0\fs22\insrsid15433267\charrsid15433267  }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par The mosquito grubs have now entered the final phase before becoming fully-fledged mosquitoes, the \'93pupal\'94
 phase. This is a very short phase consisting of only a few days at the most, during which time the pupa does not feed. The head of the mosquito, which is fused with the thoracic section tha
t will later carry the legs and feet of the mosquito, is large and round. At this stage, the mosquito is like a brand new creature, and its needs have also changed. 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \b\f8\fs24\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs28\insrsid1589504 
\par }{\f0\fs28\insrsid3626024\charrsid1589504 New body, new needs, new solutions...
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
In the transition phase from larva to pupa the resp
iratory tubes close over. This means that the larva is left unable to breathe. However, a surprising development occurs and two new windpipes appear on the front of the pupa. Once more the mosquito manages to stay alive due to a development programme spec
ifically designed for it. The larva starts breathing by elevating these two new windpipes to the surface of the water. 
\par The pupae stay close to the water surface in order to breathe. Although they move very fast, they have no nutritional needs. The pupal phase comes to an end in 3-4 days.}{\f0\fs22\insrsid15433267\charrsid15433267  }{
\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par Towards the end of the pupal phase the mosquito becomes much darker in colour and the skin becomes more transparent. Within five days, the pupa\rquote s skin splits and the mature mosquito is ready to emerge from the water. This 
moment is a show of astonishing expertise, for the young mosquito leaves the floating pupa without touching the water. It has to be able to do this, as it cannot fly if its wings get wet.}{\f0\fs22\insrsid15433267\charrsid15433267  }{
\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par The wings and legs have already completed their development during the pupal phase and are ready waiting inside the pupa till the time for their use.}{\f0\fs22\insrsid15433267\charrsid15433267  }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \b\f8\fs24\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs28\insrsid1589504 
\par }{\f0\fs28\insrsid3626024\charrsid1589504 The mosquito overcomes difficulties
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
Just before emerging from the cocoon, the pupa takes a breath and expands. This expansion causes 
the cocoon to split, starting from the head. This is an important detail, because if the splitting started from the bottom rather than the top, the mosquito would not come to the surface of the water and would drown. 
\par At this stage, the mosquito preparing 
to emerge faces great danger. If water got into the splitting cocoon, it would mean the end of the mosquito. However, the necessary precautions have already been taken to prevent this danger. The head of the splitting cocoon is covered with a sticky subst
ance that prevents the head of the mosquito from coming into contact with the water. This fluid, in common with the fluid already used by the animal in the \'93snorkel,\'94
 is water-repellent. If it were not for this special liquid in the head region, the splitting cocoon would fill with water. The mosquito\rquote s wings and body would get wet and it would sink together with the cocoon. 
\par That\rquote s not the only danger the mosquito faces when emerging from the cocoon; new difficulties await it. Let\rquote s give some thought to the
 situation of the mosquito as it attempts to extract itself from the tight-fitting cocoon enclosing it: If it loses its balance, the cocoon may turn upside down. The mosquito may come into contact with the water as it emerges and get wet. Both possibiliti
es would mean death by drowning for the mosquito.}{\f0\fs22\insrsid15433267\charrsid15433267  }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par The pupa continues to breathe. As the lightest breeze may cause it to get wet and consequently die, the mosquito chooses a moment when the wind drops to come out of the pupa. Then it slowly puts its head an
d front feet out of the cocoon. Resting its front feet on the surface of the water, it pulls the rest of its body out of the cocoon floating in the water. At this point, it is easy to see how the mosquito was created with perfectly designed feet. On the m
osquito\rquote s feet there is a special structure to prevent them sinking in the water.}{\f0\fs22\insrsid15433267\charrsid15433267  }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par If there were no such feature on the mosquito\rquote s feet, the animal would drown in the cocoon before emerging on to the water. 
\par After extracting itself from the cocoon, the mosquito rests for a while on the water and then flies off.}{\f0\fs22\insrsid15433267\charrsid15433267  }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par Of course there are other aspects of this miraculous transformation that should be given due consideration:
\par - The larva living in the water has no way of knowing what flying is. Yet the wings it needs to fly have developed perfectly while it is still in the water. 
\par - It would mean the end of the mosquito if the development of the wings enabling it to fly and the formation of the feet enabling it to stay on the surface of the water were not completed w
hile it was still in the water. The mosquito would drown as soon as it emerged from the pupa. However, everything is ready on time. 
\par When we think about all the stages the mosquito goes }{\f0\fs22\expnd-1\expndtw-5\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 through, from being laid as an egg in water until the time of flight, 
we can see that this in itself is a miracle of creation. There are hundreds of dangerous turning points that the mosquito passes through until it comes into the outside world. Thanks to the fine balance and timing inherent in each of these, the mosquito p
asses through the critical points and its life commences as a mature mosquito. }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par As we have seen, there is a flawless and extremely detailed design at work in the mosquito. Therefore even a mosquito is an important evidence of the magnificence of God\rquote s creation. God makes us aware of this reality in a verse of the Qur\rquote 
an:}{\b\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267  \'93God is not ashamed to make an example of a mosquito\'85\'94 }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 (Qur\rquote 
an, 2:26). As is the case with every living or non-living form of existence in the universe, this little creature is also a manifestation of the signs of our Lord.}{\f0\fs22\insrsid15433267\charrsid15433267  }{\f0\fs22\insrsid1903720 
\par }\pard \s15\qc \fi567\li0\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid1589504 {\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 \page }{\b\f0\fs36\insrsid3626024\charrsid1589504 A BRAND \endash  NEW BODY
\par }\pard \s15\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 {\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024 
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid1589504\charrsid15433267 
\par }{\f0\fs22\expnd17\expndtw85\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 L}{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 eaving behind its watery world and setting forth in a new world, the mosquito is now an entirely different creature.}{
\f0\fs22\insrsid15433267\charrsid15433267  }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 The new body of this creature is full of countless miracles, as in the previous stages of development. On close examination of the mosquito\rquote 
s body, the signs of a very special creation are evident in every detail. Now let\rquote s get acquainted with these miracles by dealing with the mosquito\rquote s structure section by section. 
\par The mosquito\rquote s body is divided into 3 sections: the head, the thorax and the abdomen. 
\par }\pard\plain \qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \f8\fs24\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \b\f8\fs24\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs28\insrsid3626024\charrsid1589504 
A fully equipped control centre: the head 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
There are two feelers on the upper side of the mosquito\rquote s head. These feelers are rich in sensory cells, and are very sensitive receptors. The male mosquito\rquote 
s feelers are much more sensitive than those of the female, bcause at mating time, thanks to these feelers, they can perceive the frequency of the female\rquote s wing beat in the midst of a multitude of sounds. 
\par In the female mosquito betw
een the feelers there is a tube for sucking blood. This sucking tube does not have a simple structure; contrarily it contains a somewhat complex system. In fact it is the casing for a very special cutting and vacuuming mechanism. One of the names for this
 mechanism, called the \'93labium.\'94 
\par When the mosquito bites, this sheath folds back and the cutting mechanism goes into action. This mechanism consists of 6 parts. Four of these are very effective cutting knives. They are strong enough to cut as easily into t
he skin of a frog or the scales of a snake as into the human skin. 
\par The other two parts join together to make an empty tube. The mosquito sticks this tube into the wound opened by the knives enabling it to suck the blood of its victim. 
\par One of the knives numbs the tissue with a salivary fluid it pours into the wound. This is a kind of local anaesthetic. In this way the mosquito cuts into the skin and you don\rquote 
t feel a thing as it sucks your blood. As this fluid also prevents the blood from clotting, the mosquito is able to carry on sucking the blood. It is again this fluid that later causes irritation and swelling.}{\f0\fs22\insrsid15433267\charrsid15433267  }
{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \b\f8\fs24\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs28\insrsid3626024\charrsid1589504 The thorax 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
This section joined to the head of the mosquito is where the mosquito\rquote s six legs are appended to, as well as a pair of wings. These wings are covered in scales and have veins passing through them.}{\f0\fs22\insrsid15433267\charrsid15433267  }{
\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par Some varieties of insect have two pairs of wings. However, in place of a second set of wings the mosquito has stubby knobs which vibrate during flight to help provide stability and balance. 
\par The mosquito has a hairy body. On the head, wings and legs there are scales like the scales of a butterfly. 
\par }\pard\plain \qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \f8\fs24\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \b\f8\fs24\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs28\insrsid3626024\charrsid1589504 
The abdomen, which can withstand pressure
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 Mosquitoes\rquote 
 bodies have a great capacity to expand when sucking blood. They can suck an average of 2.8 mg (0.0001 ounce) of blood in one go, which is greater than their average body weight\emdash 
2.5 mg (0.00008 ounce) (This is like someone weighing 70 kg (154 pounds) eating more than his or her own wei
ght in food at a time, and in a short space of time). How is it that an insect with such a delicate build can drink its own weight in blood? What prevents the mosquito from bursting to death from drinking such an excess of blood? 
\par As in other bloodsuckers, the mosquito has a specially designed digestive system. There are tension sensors that tell mosquitoes when to suck blood and when to stop. These work in conjunction with the digestive system. 
\par The skin on the mosquito\rquote s abdomen is composed of a flexible and transparent membrane. When blood is drawn in, this membrane opens out to enable the abdomen to expand. By this means the mosquito can drink as much blood as it pleases. 
\par Experiments have shown that if the tension sensors in the mosquito\rquote s abdomen are removed, the mosquito explodes from sucking blood. In addition to all the systems pointed out so far, the existence of a capacity control system in the mosquito
\rquote s abdomen is further evidence of the supreme art of creation. 
\par People u
se similar systems to the ones found in bloodsucking insects such as the mosquito in water storage facilities. Water drawn by pumps is transferred to storage containers, which have special sensors to control the water level. When the water in the storage 
container reaches the maximum level, the pump automatically stops.}{\f0\fs22\insrsid15433267\charrsid15433267  }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par Now let\rquote s draw a rough comparison between the two systems: The water motors usually weigh dozens of kilos or more. In addition, they are extremely noisy and need an enormous amount of energ
y to function. In time, the connectors to the pipe and the gaskets wear out and the water starts leaking. Or else, they require maintenance for reasons such as rusting. 
\par The suction system in the mosquito\rquote s head is smaller than one cubic millimetre. What\rquote s
 more, the pump does not require maintenance even once in the lifetime of the mosquito. This system never wears out or stops functioning. There is never any dysfunction in the system. Pumping systems, which are the product of high technology, are extremel
y primitive in comparison with this perfect mechanism.}{\f0\fs22\insrsid15433267\charrsid15433267  }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par Without a doubt, neither mosquitoes nor other insects possessing these perfect systems can create them at will. There is a supreme Creator Who creates this perfect system in them. This Creator is God, 
Who controls all. The knowledge of our Lord is contained in everything. It is God, the Lord of the Universe, Who controls all and creates everything to perfection. This is expressed as follows in a verse of the Qur\rquote an:
\par }\pard\plain \s18\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \b\f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\insrsid1589504 
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 This is God\rquote s creation. Show me then what those besides Him have created! The wrongdoers are clearly misguided. (Qur\rquote an, 31:11)
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\insrsid1589504 
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 Contrary to popular belief, mosquitoes do not feed on blood. The mosquito obtains its nourishment from nectar. Male mosquitoes do not suck any blood throughout the
ir lives. However, female mosquitoes suck blood to supply the need for protein of the eggs during the egg-laying stage. It takes 3-4 days to digest the blood they suck. Then the bloodsucking operation is repeated. For female mosquitoes this cycle lasts to
 the end of the egg-laying phase. 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \b\f8\fs24\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs28\insrsid3626024\charrsid1589504 
Sensitive receptors to sense the location of prey
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
If you are asleep in a pitch-dark room at midnight, a mosquito can find you easily. Even if your whole body is under the covers with only your hand sticking out, the mosqu
ito will instantly find that piece of flesh and take blood from that source. Even though the subject is one that is distasteful and which people may not wish to give thought to, we must still ask how this animal manages to do this. What is the secret that
 enables it to seize its prey in the dark?
\par The answer reveals another superior design to us: The mosquito is equipped with a complex system that enables it to find its prey. This system consists of receptors sensitive to heat, gas and various chemical subst
ances. By this means the mosquito can easily identify its prey in the dark.}{\f0\fs22\insrsid15433267\charrsid15433267  }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par The use of heat-sensitive receptors is a somewhat effective method that is frequently used nowadays in military technology, particularly in the dark. A very sensitive heat receptor is also found in the body of the mosquito. This organ, known as the \'93
tarsi,\'94 is located in the forelegs of the mosquito. When these organs detect the heat waves coming from a body, the mosquito is drawn by them and reaches its target unerringly. Furtherm
ore, thanks to this heat detector, it can easily find the regions under the skin where there is the most blood, as veins are warmer than tissue.}{\f0\fs22\insrsid15433267\charrsid15433267  }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par In other words, a mosquito entering a pitch-dark bedroom can accurately perceive the exposed parts of a sleeping person\rquote s body, even to the point of finding the veins close to the skin. 
\par Another factor that attracts the mosquito is carbon dioxide gas. This gas present in the breath of humans and animals is particularly attractive to mosquitoes and serves as an imp
ortant clue in the finding of prey. In an experiment to show the effect of carbon dioxide on mosquitoes, two humanoid models were placed two metres (6.5 feet) apart. Then carbon dioxide was emitted at breathing pace by means of a mechanism installed in th
e mouths of the models. Immediately mosquitoes began circling the heads of the models.}{\f0\fs22\insrsid15433267\charrsid15433267  }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par The cocktail of amino acids, amines, ammonia and lactic acid found in the blood also attracts the mosquito; even when the concentration of these substances is diluted 2,
000 times, the liquid is 5 times more attractive to mosquitoes than pure water. Moisture is another important factor to attract mosquitoes.}{\f0\fs22\insrsid15433267\charrsid15433267  }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par In short, the mosquito is like a warplane loaded with heat, gas, humidity and smell detectors. Even if it cannot se
e its prey in the dark, it is equipped with superior systems for unerringly finding it in the dark. It can identify the location of its prey from a distance of approximately 25 to 30 metres (82-98 feet). 
\par It is obvious that such a special structure cannot be formed as the result of a chain of coincidences. Let\rquote s examine the impossibility of this. 
\par We know that the female mosquito needs to suck blood from her victims to satisfy the protein needs of the eggs. In order to obtain this blood it is necessary to find a victim.}{\f0\fs22\insrsid15433267\charrsid15433267  }{
\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par If we take the claims of evolutionary theory seriously, the perceptive skills of the mosquito detailed above must have been acquired in stages. But the mosquito doesn\rquote t have the time to wait thousands of years for its body to acquire a heat 
receptor by chance. If it didn\rquote t have this system of perception from the beginning, the mosquito would not find its prey and the eggs would die. That is to say, it is not a question of development over time.}{
\f0\fs22\insrsid15433267\charrsid15433267  }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par Let\rquote s repeat once more the receptors possessed by the mosquito; heat, humidity, gas and chemical substance receptor systems. And in addition to these, vibration feelers for perceiving the opposite sex. 
\par The fact that a mosquito is equipped with such an effecti
ve receptive system means that its needs are catered for from the first phase of its development. The Creator of this perfect system Who brought the mosquito into existence is God. Just as God has provided for every living thing on Earth, He has also give
n them the necessary skills and equipped them to make use of this provision. This fact is made known as follows in a verse of the Qur\rquote an:
\par }\pard\plain \s18\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \b\f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\insrsid1589504 
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 There is no creature on the Earth which is not dependent upon God for its provision. He knows where it lives and where it dies. They are all recorded in a Glorious Book. (Qur\rquote an, 11:6)
\par }\pard\plain \s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \b\f8\fs24\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs28\insrsid1589504 
\par }{\f0\fs28\insrsid3626024\charrsid1589504 Biting the prey
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
When the mosquito senses one of the stimuli such as heat, gas, moisture and chemical secretions, it heads straight for its prey. The mosquito lands on its prey so gently th
at in most cases it is not even felt. Then it finds the most appropriate place to pierce using a pair of devices located in the mouthpart, which are called \'93palpi.\'94 
\par The first incision is made with the upper and lower jaw. The four cutters in the sucking t
ube cut deep into the skin. The sensory organs of heat, smell, taste and touch play an important role in establishing where the capillaries are concentrated under the skin. After a few attempts the mosquito finds the vein.}{
\f0\fs22\insrsid15433267\charrsid15433267  }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par The mosquito sucks the blood by 
sticking the tube into the hole it has opened in the skin. Thanks to this tube it can penetrate a small vein and drink blood directly. Or it can drink the blood that accumulates in the surrounding tissue when the skin is cut. 
\par Usually the piercing needles go into the skin vertically. The most important characteristic of the mosquito\rquote 
s needle is that it can bend at a certain depth. Thanks to this remarkable feature, the needle can easily move around under the skin, even to the point of being able to extend p
arallel to the skin. In this way the needle is able to get to the places where there is the highest concentration of veins. 
\par However, here a serious problem awaits the mosquito. As soon as a mosquito bites, a kind of defence system goes into operation in t
he human body. An enzyme that prevents microbes from entering the body and stops the bleeding is secreted in the region of the wound. This enzyme enables the blood to clot. Once the blood starts clotting it is impossible for the mosquito to drink any bloo
d. (Coagulation is caused by the transformation of fibrinogen, one of the plasma proteins, into fibrin.)
\par But the mosquito acts as if it is aware of this and injects an anti-coagulant secretion into the wound from within one of its sharp knives. Thus the enzyme in the blood is rendered ineffective and the clotting stops.}{
\f0\fs22\insrsid15433267\charrsid15433267  }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par What\rquote s more, with this secretion the mosquito even gives a local anaesthetic to its victim, numbing the area it cuts into. Accordingly the victim is not aware that its skin has been cut and 
its blood sucked. It is this secretion that causes an allergic reaction in the skin and causes the skin to itch. 
\par In the few seconds in which the above takes place, a person cannot even realise that he has been bitten by a mosquito.}{\f0\fs22\insrsid15433267\charrsid15433267  }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par A female sucks about 2
.8 mg (0.0001 ounce) of blood in one go, and this takes about 2.5 minutes. When the sucking finishes, the blood is sent to the midgut by suction pumps located in the fore-section of the digestive system. The abdomen fills with blood as far as the digestiv
e system. It takes 3-4 days to digest the blood and then the sucking process is repeated.}{\f0\fs22\insrsid15433267\charrsid15433267  }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par If we stop and think for a while about all these processes, we will come to some important conclusions.
\par The mosquito doesn\rquote t just have a superior receptive system and
 a cutting and sucking mechanism to get the blood it needs; it also has chemical knowledge. As explained above, the mosquito uses a secretion, which prevents the blood from coagulating. What\rquote 
s more, this secretion protects it from an enzyme in the defence system of a body unknown to it and of which it has no intimate knowledge. This secretion even has the property of anaesthetising the living tissues it cuts like a surgeon.}{
\f0\fs22\insrsid15433267\charrsid15433267  }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par In light of this information one can\rquote t help asking these questions:
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid4280561 -}{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 How does the mosquito know that blood coagulates?
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid4280561 -}{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 How has it learnt that cutting into the living tissue of its victim causes pain and how has it developed a numbing technique to get round this problem? 
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid4280561 -}{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 Giving a local anaesthetic before an operation is a technique that has been developed with the help of medical knowledge. How has the mosquito acquired this knowledge? 
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid4280561 -}{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 Since it is extremely difficult to synthesise this fluid even under laboratory conditions, how has the mosquito acquired it?
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid4280561 -}{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 Is it pure coincidence that this fluid is to be found exactly where it is most needed in the cutting knives that will rupture the skin? 
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid4280561 -}{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 How can it be explained that there is an excellent mechanism in a tube that i
s 0.1 cm (0.03 inch) in length with a radius of approximately 0.01 cm (0.003 inch) found in a creature no more than a centimetre long, and that every mosquito without exception has always had such a system and knowledge?
\par The answer is obvious: The mosquito
 cannot be the genius with information on the chemical composition of the human body that evaluates this information and develops solutions in its own body. It is evident that the system that enables this secretion to exist in the mosquito and to be injec
ted into the veins of its preys can only be the creation of a Supreme Creator Who has the most detailed knowledge of the anatomy of both humans and mosquitoes. 
\par It is revealed in the Qur\rquote an that our Lord is the \'93Lord of the worlds.\'94 \'93World\'94 is used in the plural sense to mean \'93different worlds, different dimensions or different orders and systems.\'94 The word \'93Lord\'94
 encompasses meanings such as \'93educator, rearer, organizer, law-giver, master.\'94 The incredibly difficult \'93operation\'94 that the mosquito carries out in the human body is a small world within it. The author of the superior \'93design\'94
 in this world, the details of which we are unaware and are only just beginning to discover by means of science, is our Lord, God.}{\f0\fs22\insrsid15433267\charrsid15433267  }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par The duty of man, who can easily be defeated
 even by this little creature, is to try to see the signs God created in different worlds, and to acknowledge the might of the Lord, as it behoves Him. God calls on man to reflect on this subject in verses of the Qur\rquote an as follows:
\par }\pard\plain \s18\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \b\f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\insrsid1589504 
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 Humanity! An example ha
s been made, so listen to it carefully. Those whom you call upon besides God are not even able to create a single fly, even if they were to join together to do it. And if a fly steals something from them, they cannot get it back. How feeble are both the s
eeker and the sought! They do not render to God the homage due to Him. Yet God is Powerful, Almighty. (Qur\rquote an, 22:73-74)
\par }\pard\plain \qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \f8\fs24\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\b\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \b\f8\fs24\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs28\insrsid3626024\charrsid1589504 
Superior flying technique
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
The wings of the mosquito
 beat approximately 500 times a second. This is why the sound is perceived by the human ear as a buzzing sound. This rate, which seems like a physical impossibility to us, has been established as a result of very sensitive measurements and is a truly asto
nishing figure. 
\par An example can help us to understand the subject more easily. If someone\rquote s arms were tied to a machine and made to flap 500 times a second, the outcome would not be favorable at all: The shoulder joint would rupture, the connections would b
urn, all the ligaments holding the arm together would snap and the arm would be completely disabled. If the movement was made for more than a second, the shoulder would be dislocated and the arm would break off. This movement, which is impossible for huma
ns, is part of the daily life of the mosquito.}{\f0\fs22\insrsid15433267\charrsid15433267  }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par Naturally, this miraculous ability is realised with the help of various support systems innate in the mosquito. 
\par First and foremost, the muscles and connectors that make the wings flap have to be extremely strong and resilient.}{\f0\fs22\insrsid15433267\charrsid15433267  }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par The second condition is that these muscles have to be provided with energy. As we know, cells use oxygen to synthesise}{\f0\fs22\insrsid15433267\charrsid15433267  }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
energy. Resilience increases in direct proportion to an increased capacity for the use of oxygen.}{\f0\fs22\insrsid15433267\charrsid15433267  }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par In the human body,
 oxygen from the lungs is taken into the blood whereby it is carried to the body cells. The reason a person gets tired when running is that the necessary oxygen is not carried to the cells in time. Another reason is the appearance of lactic acid in the ce
lls of the muscles. If the cells cannot get rid of this acid, a feeling of fatigue ensues. 
\par This situation is somewhat different for mosquitoes. In order to beat their wings, which are nearly the size of their bodies, 500 times a second, the mosquito needs a great deal of oxygen.}{\f0\fs22\insrsid15433267\charrsid15433267  }{
\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par Accordingly, the mosquito\rquote s respiratory system is created specifically to meet this requirement. The respiratory system consists of a respiratory tube that reaches almost every cell. As this tube makes direct contact with the outsi
de air, the cells are able to get oxygen without an intermediary substance. And waste substances can also be passed from the cells into the atmosphere by means of these tubes. This is how the mosquito manages to flap its wings thousands of times a minute 
without tiring. 
\par The fact that the mosquito can beat its wings so rapidly gives it many advantages in flying. It can fly up and down vertically, and can move forwards and backwards with ease. The mosquito is like a perfect machine that has many flight featu
res superior to those of a helicopter or a plane.}{\f0\fs22\insrsid15433267\charrsid15433267  }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par For a helicopter or a plane to fly, specially refined fuel is used. Before each flight, it has to be refuelled with this somewhat expensive fuel. On the other hand, the mosquito gets all its energy from th
e nectar it feeds on. Planes and helicopters undergo maintenance before every flight, and the engine parts are periodically renewed. Encountering no such problems, the mosquito keeps on flying throughout its life, thanks to the strength of the muscles on 
its back. 
\par Present day aircraft have acquired their current features as a result of years of research and lengthy experimentation. The pool of knowledge utilised has accumulated over hundreds of years. At every stage of development, human brain power and de
sign has been employed. But however advanced technology may be, man is way behind the flight technology found in nature. No existing technology can make a machine with the dimensions and the flight characteristics of a mosquito. 
\par It should not be forgotten
 that the being we are comparing with machines is a 10 mm (0.4 inch) creature composed of millions of small living parts (cells). With its circulation, excretory and nervous systems, a heart that constantly beats, eyes that see, its receptor systems and m
illions of cells synthesizing proteins, it is a far more complicated fusion than a plane or a helicopter. 
\par When asked how planes or helicopters are made, people will say that they are made by senior engineers in advanced factories. They know only too well h
ow ridiculous and illogical it would be to claim that these aircraft were formed as a result of the chance fusion of metals. But a percentage of the same people will claim that the mosquito, which is not even brought into the debate as being superior to t
he two types of aircraft, came into existence as the result of \'93coincidences occurring in the evolutionary process,\'94
 in other words, without any kind of planner. For it is difficult for them to accept the existence of a planner, that is to say, the existence of God, because that would entail cleansing themselves of their \'93ideological\'94
 reasoning, which would be contrary to their interests. 
\par They are only deceiving themselves in so doing. The mosquito is an insect that came into existence after going through a number of miraculous phases in a swamp or a pool of water. Whatever stage technology may develop to, it cannot bring a living thing in
to existence, not even a single fly. Because creation is the preserve of God, the Lord of the worlds. And every creation is evidence of His existence. The judgement given in the Qur\rquote an; }{\b\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 \'93
... Those whom you call upon besides God are not even able to create a single fly, even if they were to join together to do it...\'94 }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 (Qur\rquote 
an, 22:73) is valid for all eternity for those who deny His existence, and shows the extent to which they contradict and deceive themselves. }{\f0\fs22\insrsid1903720 
\par }\pard \s15\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid1903720 {\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 \page }{\b\f0\fs36\insrsid3626024\charrsid1903720 Conclusion
\par }\pard \s15\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 {\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024 
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid1903720\charrsid15433267 
\par }{\f0\fs22\expnd15\expndtw75\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 M}{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 any books have been written throu
ghout the world on mosquitoes, and extensive research has been conducted. However, the aim of this book is very different from that of all these books. It does not aim to provide general information on the mating, egg laying and feeding habits of the mosq
uito. 
\par Its aim in using this subject is to remind people of the most important fact in life: their responsibilities to our true Lord, God, Who is Lord of the worlds. 
\par If we briefly recall some of the miracles we have described in this book, it can be understood once more how a seemingly ordinary creature like the mosquito is an important piece of evidence of creation. These miracles are listed below:
\par -When it is time to lay her eggs, the mother mosquito finds the most appropriate place, thanks to the heat and moisture detector in her abdomen.
\par -The mosquito lays her eggs in water, and takes various precautions in view of the problems the young will encounter in the future. 
\par -When the eggs are ready to hatch, if the conditions are not favourable, they do not crack until the conditions are right. 
\par -The eggs have the ability to camouflage themselves.
\par -The mother mosquito prevents her eggs from getting lost or sinking by making them into a raft. 
\par -The eggs have a hollow on the underside, which enables them to form a raft when they are stuck together. 
\par -The eggs of the }{\i\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 Anopheles}{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267  mosquito have structures resembling life buoys that prevent them from sinking.
\par -The carpenter mosquito creates the optimum environment for her eggs by cutting into the roots of plants. 
\par -Some newly hatched larvae have the knowledge that oxygen is to be found in the roots of plants and cut into the roots to get at this oxygen. 
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid4280561 -}{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 The larvae have specially designed brushes around the mouth, which enable them to feed by creating a current in the water and filtering it. 
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid4280561 -}{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 The larvae make themselves an appropriate home and are provided with everything they require to do so.
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid4280561 -}{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 Larvae living in flowing water have hooks on their tails so that they can hang on to something and avoid being swept away by the current. 
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid4280561 -}{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 The larvae that hang head down in the water have an air tube resembling a diver\rquote s snorkel that enables them to take in air from above the water level. 
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid4280561 -}{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 Inside the tube there is a special isolation material that keeps water out. 
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid4280561 -}{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 The larvae, which are exposed to the sun all day and have a transparent skin, have a protective shield of uric acid to stop them shrivelling up in the sun.
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid4280561 -}{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 In the transition to the pupal stage, the larvae have a special organ for splitting their skin, which they lose at a later stage. 
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid4280561 -}{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 In the final metamorphosis of the pupa, the skin splits from the head at the surface of the water. (If it were to split from any other point, the interior of the cocoon would get wet.)

\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid4280561 -}{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 The head section of the cocoon is also insulated with a special material.
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid4280561 -}{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 The mosquito emerges from the pupa submerged in water without its body or wings coming into contact with the water.
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid4280561 -}{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 From being a creature living in water, it emerges as a perfect flying machine.
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid4280561 -}{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 The male mosquito is able to recognise the female by the frequency at which her wings beat.
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid4280561 -}{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 The mosquito uses a cutting, piercing and sucking mechanism consisting of 6 parts to bite its prey. 
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid4280561 -}{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 It can suck blood without its victim being aware by numbing the wound it makes. 
\par This book and the miraculous events it tells of are perhaps more importan
t than you may have thought. Because God, Who creates these miracles as signs of His existence, charges humanity with certain responsibilities. And carrying out these responsibilities is an important subject for everyone, whether or not they realise it. 

\par God makes known to people in the following verse of the Qur\rquote an that He is the only true friend and protector: 
\par }\pard\plain \s18\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \b\f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\insrsid1903720 
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 God is the protector of those who believe. He brings them out of the darkness into the light. But those who disbelieve have false deities as prot
ectors. They take them from the light into the darkness. Those are the heirs of Hell and shall abide in it for ever. (Qur\rquote an, 2:257)}{\f0\fs22\insrsid4280561 
\par 
\par 
\par }\pard \s18\qc \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid4280561 {\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 \page }{\f0\fs36\insrsid3626024\charrsid4280561 EVOLUTION DECEIT
\par }\pard \s18\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 {\b0\f0\fs22\expnd15\expndtw75\insrsid4280561 
\par 
\par }{\b0\f0\fs22\expnd15\expndtw75\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 D}{\b0\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 arwinism, in other words the theory of evolution, was put forward with the aim of denying the fact o
f creation, but is in truth nothing but failed, unscientific nonsense. This theory, which claims that life emerged by chance from inanimate matter, was invalidated by the scientific evidence of clear "design" in the universe and in living things. In this 
w
ay, science confirmed the fact that God created the universe and the living things in it. The propaganda carried out today in order to keep the theory of evolution alive is based solely on the distortion of the scientific facts, biased interpretation, and
 lies and falsehoods disguised as science.
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
Yet this propaganda cannot conceal the truth. The fact that the theory of evolution is the greatest deception in the history of science has been expressed more and more in the scientific world over the last 20-30 y
ears. Research carried out after the 1980s in particular has revealed that the claims of Darwinism are totally unfounded, something that has been stated by a large number of scientists. In the United States in particular, many scientists from such differe
n
t fields as biology, biochemistry and paleontology recognize the invalidity of Darwinism and employ the concept of intelligent design to account for the origin of life. This "intelligent design" is a scientific expression of the fact that God created all 
living things.
\par We have examined the collapse of the theory of evolution and the proofs of creation in great scientific detail in many of our works, and are still continuing to do so. Given the enormous importance of this subject, it will be of great benefit
 to summarize it here.}{\f0\fs22\insrsid4280561 
\par }{\b\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid1589504 \b\f8\fs24\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs28\insrsid3626024\charrsid1589504 
The Scientific Collapse of Darwinism
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
Although this doctrine goes back as far as ancient Greece, the theory of evolution was advanced extensively in the nineteenth century. The most important development that made it the top topic of the world of science was Charles Darwin's }{
\i\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 The Origin of Species}{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
, published in 1859. In this book, he denied that God created different living species on Earth separately, for he claimed that all living beings had a common ancestor and had diversified over time through small changes. Darwin's theory was not based on
 any concrete scientific finding; as he also accepted, it was just an "assumption." Moreover, as Darwin confessed in the long chapter of his book titled "Difficulties on Theory," the theory failed in the face of many critical questions. 
\par Darwin invested al
l of his hopes in new scientific discoveries, which he expected to solve these difficulties. However, contrary to his expectations, scientific findings expanded the dimensions of these difficulties. The defeat of Darwinism in the face of science can be re
viewed under three basic topics:
\par 1) The theory cannot explain how life originated on Earth. 
\par 2) No scientific finding shows that the "evolutionary mechanisms" proposed by the theory have any evolutionary power at all. 
\par 3) The fossil record proves the exact opposite of what the theory suggests.
\par In this section, we will examine these three basic points in general outlines:
\par }\pard\plain \s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \b\f8\fs24\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par }{\f0\fs28\insrsid3626024\charrsid1589504 The First Insurmountable Step: The Origin of Life
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
The theory of evolution posits that all living spe
cies evolved from a single living cell that emerged on the primitive Earth 3.8 billion years ago. How a single cell could generate millions of complex living species and, if such an evolution really occurred, why traces of it cannot be observed in the fos
sil record are some of the questions that the theory cannot answer. However, first and foremost, we need to ask: How did this "first cell" originate?
\par }{\f0\fs22\expnd-1\expndtw-5\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 Since the theory of evolution denies creation and any kind of supernatural intervention, it maintains that 
the "first cell" originated coincidentally within the laws of nature, without any design, plan or arrangement. According to the theory, inanimate matter must have produced a living cell as a result of coincidences. Such a claim, however, is inconsistent w
ith the most unassailable rules of biology. }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \b\f8\fs24\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs28\insrsid3626024\charrsid1589504 
"Life Comes From Life"
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
In his book, Darwin never referred to the origin of life. The primitive understanding of science in his time rested on the assumption that living beings had a very simple structure. Since 
medieval times, spontaneous generation, which asserts that non-living materials came together to form living organisms, had been widely accepted. It was commonly believed that insects came into being from food leftovers, and mice from wheat. Interesting e
xperiments were conducted to prove this theory. Some wheat was placed on a dirty piece of cloth, and it was believed that mice would originate from it after a while. 
\par Similarly, maggots developing in rotting meat was assumed to be evidence of spontaneous ge
neration. However, it was later understood that worms did not appear on meat spontaneously, but were carried there by flies in the form of larvae, invisible to the naked eye. 
\par Even when Darwin wrote }{\i\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 The Origin of Species}{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 , the belief that bacteria could come into existence from non-living matter was widely accepted in the world of science. 

\par However, five years after the publication of Darwin's book, Louis Pasteur announced his results after long studies and experiments, that disproved spontaneous generation,
 a cornerstone of Darwin's theory. In his triumphal lecture at the Sorbonne in 1864, Pasteur said: "Never will the doctrine of spontaneous generation recover from the mortal blow struck by this simple experiment."}{
\f0\fs22\up6\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 1}{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par }{\f0\fs22\expnd-1\expndtw-5\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 For a long time, advocates of the theory 
of evolution resisted these findings. However, as the development of science unraveled the complex structure of the cell of a living being, the idea that life could come into being coincidentally faced an even greater impasse. }{
\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \b\f8\fs24\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs28\insrsid3626024\charrsid1589504 
Inconclusive Efforts of the Twentieth Century
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
The first evolutionist who took up the subject of the origin of life in the twentieth century was the renowned Russian biologist Alexander Oparin. With various theses he advanced in the 1930s, he tried to prove that a living cell could o
riginate by coincidence. These studies, however, were doomed to failure, and Oparin had to make the following confession: 
\par }\pard\plain \s17\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\i\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
Unfortunately, however, the problem of the origin of the cell is perhaps the most obscure point in the whole study of the evolution of organisms.}{\f0\fs22\up6\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 2}{\i\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
Evolutionist followers of Oparin tried to carry out experiments to solve this problem. The best known experiment was carried out by the American chemist Stanley Miller in 1953. Combining the gases he alleged to have existed in the primordial 
Earth's atmosphere in an experiment set-up, and adding energy to the mixture, Miller synthesized several organic molecules (amino acids) present in the structure of proteins. 
\par Barely a few years had passed before it was revealed that this experiment, which was then presented as an important step in the name of evolution, was invalid, for the atmosphere used in the experiment was very different from the real Earth conditions.}{
\f0\fs22\up6\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 3}{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par After a long silence, Miller confessed that the atmosphere medium he used was unrealistic.}{\f0\fs22\up6\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 4
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
All the evolutionists' efforts throughout the twentieth century to explain the origin of life ended in failure. The geochemist Jeffrey Bada, from the San Diego Scripps Institute accepts this fact in an article published in }{
\i\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 Earth}{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267  magazine in 1998:
\par }\pard\plain \s17\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\i\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
Today as we leave the twentieth century, we still face the biggest unsolved problem that we had when we entered the twentieth century: How did life originate on Earth?}{\f0\fs22\up6\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 5}{
\i\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \b\f8\fs24\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs28\insrsid3626024\charrsid1589504 
The Complex Structure of Life 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
The primary reason why the theory of evolution ended up in such a great impasse regarding the origin of life is that even those living organisms deemed to be the simplest have incredibly complex structures. The cell of a living thing is more complex than 
all of our man-made technological products. Today, even in the most developed laboratories of the world, a living cell cannot be produced by bringing organic chemicals together.
\par The conditions required for the formation of a cell are too great in quantity to be explained away by coincidences. The probability of proteins, the building blocks of a cell, being synthesized coincidentally, is 1 in 10}{
\f0\fs22\up6\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 950 }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 for an average protein made up of 500 amino acids. In mathematics, a probability smaller than 1 over 10}{\f0\fs22\up6\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 50}{
\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267  is considered to be impossible in practical terms.
\par The DNA molecule, which is located in the nucleus of a cell and which stores genetic information, is an incredible databank. If the information coded in DNA were written down, it would make a giant library cons
isting of an estimated 900 volumes of encyclopedias consisting of 500 pages each.
\par A very interesting dilemma emerges at this point: DNA can replicate itself only with the help of some specialized proteins (enzymes). However, the synthesis of these enzymes 
can be realized only by the information coded in DNA. As they both depend on each other, they have to exist at the same time for replication. This brings the scenario that life originated by itself to a deadlock. Prof. Leslie Orgel, an evolutionist of rep
ute from the University of San Diego, California, confesses this fact in the September 1994 issue of the }{\i\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 Scientific American }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 magazine:
\par }\pard\plain \s17\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\i\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
It is extremely improbable that proteins and nucleic acids, both of which are structurally complex, arose spontaneously in
 the same place at the same time. Yet it also seems impossible to have one without the other. And so, at first glance, one might have to conclude that life could never, in fact, have originated by chemical means.}{
\f0\fs22\up6\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 6}{\i\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
No doubt, if it is impossible for life to have originated from natural causes, then it has to be accepted that life was "created" in a supernatural way. This fact explicitly invalidates the theory of evolution, whose main purpose is to deny creation. 

\par }\pard\plain \s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \b\f8\fs24\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par }{\f0\fs28\insrsid3626024\charrsid1589504 Imaginary Mechanism of Evolution 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\expnd-1\expndtw-5\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
The second important point that negates Darwin's theory is that both concepts put forward by the theory as "evolutionary mechanisms" were understood to have, in reality, no evolutionary power. }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par Darwin based his evolution allegation entirely on the mechanism of "natural selection." The importance he placed on this mechanism was evident in the name of his book: }{\i\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
The Origin of Species, By Means of Natural Selection\'85
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 Natural selection holds that those living things that are stronger and more suited to the natural condition
s of their habitats will survive in the struggle for life. For example, in a deer herd under the threat of attack by wild animals, those that can run faster will survive. Therefore, the deer herd will be comprised of faster and stronger individuals. Howev
er, unquestionably, this mechanism will not cause deer to evolve and transform themselves into another living species, for instance, horses. 
\par Therefore, the mechanism of natural selection has no evolutionary power. Darwin was also aware of this fact and had to state this in his book }{\i\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 The Origin of Species}{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 :

\par }\pard\plain \s17\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\i\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
Natural selection can do nothing until favourable individual differences or variations occur.}{\f0\fs22\up6\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 7}{\i\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \b\f8\fs24\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\insrsid4280561 
\par }{\f0\fs28\insrsid3626024\charrsid1589504 Lamarck's Impact
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
So, how could these "favorable variations" occur? Darwin tried to answer this question from t
he standpoint of the primitive understanding of science at that time. According to the French biologist Chevalier de Lamarck (1744-1829), who lived before Darwin, living creatures passed on the traits they acquired during their lifetime to the next genera
t
ion. He asserted that these traits, which accumulated from one generation to another, caused new species to be formed. For instance, he claimed that giraffes evolved from antelopes; as they struggled to eat the leaves of high trees, their necks were exten
ded from generation to generation. 
\par Darwin also gave similar examples. In his book }{\i\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 The Origin of Species}{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
, for instance, he said that some bears going into water to find food transformed themselves into whales over time.}{\f0\fs22\up6\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 8}{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par }{\f0\fs22\expnd-1\expndtw-5\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 However, the laws of inheritance dis
covered by Gregor Mendel (1822-84) and verified by the science of genetics, which flourished in the twentieth century, utterly demolished the legend that acquired traits were passed on to subsequent generations. Thus, natural selection fell out of favor a
s an evolutionary mechanism. }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \b\f8\fs24\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\insrsid4280561 
\par }{\f0\fs28\insrsid3626024\charrsid1589504 Neo-Darwinism and Mutations
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
In order to find a solution, Darwinists advanced the "Modern Synthetic Theory," or as it is more commonly known, Neo-Darwinism, at the end of the 1930's. Neo-Darwinism added mutations, which are dis
tortions formed in the genes of living beings due to such external factors as radiation or replication errors, as the "cause of favorable variations" in addition to natural mutation. 
\par Today, the mode
l that stands for evolution in the world is Neo-Darwinism. The theory maintains that millions of living beings formed as a result of a process whereby numerous complex organs of these organisms (e.g., ears, eyes, lungs, and wings) underwent "mutations," t
hat is, genetic disorders. Yet, there is an outright scientific fact that totally undermines this theory: Mutations do not cause living beings to develop; on the contrary, they are always harmful. 
\par The reason for this is very simple: DNA has a very complex structure, and random effects can only harm it. The American geneticist B. G. Ranganathan explains this as follows:
\par }\pard\plain \s17\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\i\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
First, genuine mutations are very rare in nature. Secondly, most mutations are harmful since they are random, rather than orderly changes in
 the structure of genes; any random change in a highly ordered system will be for the worse, not for the better. For example, if an earthquake were to shake a highly ordered structure such as a building, there would be a random change in the framework of 
the building which, in all probability, would not be an improvement.}{\f0\fs22\up6\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 9}{\i\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
Not surprisingly, no mutation example, which is useful, that is, which is observed to develop the genetic code, has been observed so far. All mutations have proved to be harmful. It was u
nderstood that mutation, which is presented as an "evolutionary mechanism," is actually a genetic occurrence that harms living things, and leaves them disabled. (The most common effect of mutation on human beings is cancer.) Of course, a destructive mecha
n
ism cannot be an "evolutionary mechanism." Natural selection, on the other hand, "can do nothing by itself," as Darwin also accepted. This fact shows us that there is no "evolutionary mechanism" in nature. Since no evolutionary mechanism exists, no such a
ny imaginary process called "evolution" could have taken place. 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \b\f8\fs24\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs28\insrsid3626024\charrsid1589504 
The Fossil Record:No Sign of Intermediate Forms
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
The clearest evidence that the scenario suggested by the theory of evolution did not take place is the fossil record. 
\par According to this theory
, every living species has sprung from a predecessor. A previously existing species turned into something else over time and all species have come into being in this way. In other words, this transformation proceeds gradually over millions of years. 

\par }{\f0\fs22\expnd-1\expndtw-5\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 Had this been the case, numerous intermediary species should have existed and lived within this long transformation period. }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par For instance, some half-fish/half-reptiles should have lived in the past which had acquired some reptilian traits in addition to the fis
h traits they already had. Or there should have existed some reptile-birds, which acquired some bird traits in addition to the reptilian traits they already had. Since these would be in a transitional phase, they should be disabled, defective, crippled li
ving beings. Evolutionists refer to these imaginary creatures, which they believe to have lived in the past, as "transitional forms." 
\par If such animals ever really existed, there should be millions and even billions of them in number and variety. More importantly, the remains of these strange creatures should be present in the fossil record. In }{
\i\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 The Origin of Species}{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 , Darwin explained:
\par }\pard\plain \s17\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\i\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
If my theory be true, numberless intermediate varieties, linking most closely all of the species of the same group together must assuredly have existed... Consequently, evidence of their former existence could be found only amongst fossil remains.}{
\f0\fs22\up6\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 10}{\i\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \b\f8\fs24\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs28\insrsid3626024\charrsid1589504 
Darwin's Hopes Shattered
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\expnd-1\expndtw-5\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
However, although evolutionists have been making strenuous efforts to find fossils since the middle of the
 nineteenth century all over the world, no transitional forms have yet been uncovered. All of the fossils, contrary to the evolutionists' expectations, show that life appeared on Earth all of a sudden and fully-formed. 
\par One famous British paleontologist, Derek V. Ager, admits this fact, even though he is an evolutionist:
\par }\pard\plain \s17\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\i\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
The point emerges that if we examine the fossil record in detail, whether at the level of orders or of species, we find\emdash over and over again\emdash not gradual evolution, but the sudden explosion of one group at the expense of another.}{
\f0\fs22\up6\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 11}{\i\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\expnd-1\expndtw-5\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
This means that in the fossil record, all living species suddenly emerge as fully formed, without any intermediate forms in between. This is just the opposite of Darwin's assumptions. Also, this is very strong evide
nce that all living things are created. The only explanation of a living species emerging suddenly and complete in every detail without any evolutionary ancestor is that it was created. This fact is admitted also by the widely known evolutionist biologist
 Douglas Futuyma:
\par }\pard\plain \s17\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\i\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
Creation and evolution, between them, exhaust the possible explanations for the origin of living things. Organisms either appeared on the earth fully developed or they did not. If they did not, they must have developed from pre-existing sp
ecies by some process of modification. If they did appear in a fully developed state, they must indeed have been created by some omnipotent intelligence.}{\f0\fs22\up6\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 12}{\i\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\expnd-1\expndtw-5\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
Fossils show that living beings emerged fully developed and in a perfect state on the Earth. That means that "the origin of species," contrary to Darwin's supposition, is not evolution, but creation.
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \b\f8\fs24\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs28\insrsid3626024\charrsid1589504 
The Tale of Human Evolution
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
The subject most often brought up by advocates of the theory of evolution is the subject of the origin of man. The Darwinist cl
aim holds that modern man evolved from ape-like creatures. During this alleged evolutionary process, which is supposed to have started 4-5 million years ago, some "transitional forms" between modern man and his ancestors are supposed to have existed. Acco
rding to this completely imaginary scenario, four basic "categories" are listed: 
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15627339 1. Australopithecus 
\par 2. Homo habilis
\par 3. Homo erectus
\par 4. Homo sapiens
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
Evolutionists call man's so-called first ape-like ancestors Australopithecus, which means "South African ape." These living beings are actually nothing but an old ape species that has become extinct. Extensive research done on various }{
\i\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 Australopithecus}{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267  spec
imens by two world famous anatomists from England and the USA, namely, Lord Solly Zuckerman and Prof. Charles Oxnard, shows that these apes belonged to an ordinary ape species that became extinct and bore no resemblance to humans.}{
\f0\fs22\up6\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 13}{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par Evolutionists classify the next stage of human evolution as "homo," that is "man." According to their claim, the living beings in the Homo series are more developed than }{\i\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 Australopithecus}{
\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 . Evolutionists devise a fanciful evolution scheme by arranging different fossils of these cr
eatures in a particular order. This scheme is imaginary because it has never been proved that there is an evolutionary relation between these different classes. Ernst Mayr, one of the twentieth century's most important evolutionists, contends in his book 
}{\i\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 One Long Argument}{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
 that "particularly historical [puzzles] such as the origin of life or of Homo sapiens, are extremely difficult and may even resist a final, satisfying explanation."}{\f0\fs22\up6\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 14}{
\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par By outlining the link chain as }{\i\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 Australopithecus}{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267  > }{\i\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 Homo habilis}{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267  > }{
\i\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 Homo erectus}{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267  > }{\i\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 Homo sapiens}{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
, evolutionists imply that each of these species is one another's ancestor. However, recent findings of paleoanthropologists have revealed that }{\i\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 Australopithecus}{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 , }{
\i\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 Homo habilis}{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 , and }{\i\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 Homo erectus}{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267  lived at different parts of the world at th
e same time.}{\f0\fs22\up6\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 15}{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par Moreover, a certain segment of humans classified as }{\i\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 Homo erectus }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 have lived up until very modern times. }{\i\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
Homo sapiens neandarthalensis }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 and }{\i\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 Homo sapiens sapiens}{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267  (modern man) co-existed in the same region.}{
\f0\fs22\up6\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 16}{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par This situation apparently indicates the invalidity of the claim that they are ancestors of one another. A paleontologist from Harvard University, Stephen Jay Gould, explains this deadlock of the theory of evolution, although he is an evolutionist himself:

\par }\pard\plain \s17\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\i\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
What has become of our ladder if the
re are three coexisting lineages of hominids (A. africanus, the robust australopithecines, and H. habilis), none clearly derived from another? Moreover, none of the three display any evolutionary trends during their tenure on earth.}{
\f0\fs22\up6\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 17}{\i\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 Put briefly, the scen
ario of human evolution, which is "upheld" with the help of various drawings of some "half ape, half human" creatures appearing in the media and course books, that is, frankly, by means of propaganda, is nothing but a tale with no scientific foundation. 

\par Lord Solly Zuckerman, one of the most famous and respected scientists in the U.K., who carried out research on this subject for years and studied }{\i\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 Australopithecus}{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
 fossils for 15 years, finally concluded, despite being an evolutionist himself, that there is, in fact, no such family tree branching out from ape-like creatures to man. 
\par Zuckerman also made an interesting "spectrum of science" ranging from those he considered scientific to those he considered unscientific. According to Zuckerman's spectrum, the most "scientific"\emdash that is, depending on concrete data\emdash 
fields of science are chemistry and physics. After them come the biological sciences and then the social sciences. At the far end of the spectrum, which is the part considered to be most "unscientific," are "extra-sensory perception"\emdash 
concepts such as telepathy and sixth sense\emdash and finally "human evolution." Zuckerman explains his reasoning:
\par }\pard\plain \s17\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\i\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
We then move right off the register of objective truth into those fields of presumed biological science, like extrasensory perception or the interpretation of man's fossil history, where to the faithful [evolutionist] anything is possible\emdash 
and where the ardent believer [in evolution] is sometimes able to believe several contradictory things at the same time.}{\f0\fs22\up6\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 18}{\i\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 The tale of 
human evolution boils down to nothing but the prejudiced interpretations of some fossils unearthed by certain people, who blindly adhere to their theory.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \b\f8\fs24\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs28\insrsid3626024\charrsid1589504 Darwinian Formula!

\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
Besides all the technical evidence we have dealt with so far, let us now for once, examine what kind of a superstition the evolutionists have with an example so simple as to be understood even by children:
\par The theory of evolution asserts that life is formed by chance. According to this claim, lifeless and unconscious atoms came together
 to form the cell and then they somehow formed other living things, including man. Let us think about that. When we bring together the elements that are the building-blocks of life such as carbon, phosphorus, nitrogen and potassium, only a heap is formed.
 
No matter what treatments it undergoes, this atomic heap cannot form even a single living being. If you like, let us formulate an "experiment" on this subject and let us examine on the behalf of evolutionists what they really claim without pronouncing lou
dly under the name "Darwinian formula":
\par Let evolutionists put plenty of materials present in the composition of living things such as phosphorus, nitrogen, carbon, oxygen, iron, and magnesium into big barrels. Moreover, let them add in these barrels any mat
erial that does not exist under normal conditions, but they think as necessary. Let them add in this mixture as many amino acids\emdash which have no possibility of forming under natural conditions\emdash and as many proteins\emdash 
a single one of which has a formation probability of 10}{\f0\fs22\up6\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 -950}{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 \emdash 
as they like. Let them expose these mixtures to as much heat and moisture as they like. Let them stir these with whatever technologically developed device they like. Let them put the foremost scientists beside these barrels. Let these exper
ts wait in turn beside these barrels for billions, and even trillions of years. Let them be free to use all kinds of conditions they believe to be necessary for a human's formation. No matter what they do, they cannot produce from these barrels a human, s
a
y a professor that examines his cell structure under the electron microscope. They cannot produce giraffes, lions, bees, canaries, horses, dolphins, roses, orchids, lilies, carnations, bananas, oranges, apples, dates, tomatoes, melons, watermelons, figs, 
olives, grapes, peaches, peafowls, pheasants, multicoloured butterflies, or millions of other living beings such as these. Indeed, they could not obtain even a single cell of any one of them. 
\par Briefly, unconscious atoms cannot form the cell by coming togeth
er. They cannot take a new decision and divide this cell into two, then take other decisions and create the professors who first invent the electron microscope and then examine their own cell structure under that microscope. Matter is an unconscious, life
less heap, and it comes to life with God's superior creation. 
\par The theory of evolution, which claims the opposite, is a total fallacy completely contrary to reason. Thinking even a little bit on the claims of evolutionists discloses this reality, just as in the above example.
\par }\pard\plain \s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \b\f8\fs24\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par }{\f0\fs28\insrsid3626024\charrsid1589504 Technology in the Eye and the Ear
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
Another subject that remains unanswered by evolutionary theory is the excellent quality of perception in the eye and the ear. 
\par }{\f0\fs22\expnd-1\expndtw-5\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 Before passing on to the subject of the eye,
 let us briefly answer the question of how we see. Light rays coming from an object fall oppositely on the eye's retina. Here, these light rays are transmitted into electric signals by cells and reach a tiny spot at the back of the brain, the "center of v
ision." These electric signals are perceived in this center as an image after a series of processes. With this technical background, let us do some thinking.}{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par The brain is insulated from light. That means that its inside is completely dark, and that no light
 reaches the place where it is located. Thus, the "center of vision" is never touched by light and may even be the darkest place you have ever known. However, you observe a luminous, bright world in this pitch darkness.
\par The image formed in the eye is so sh
arp and distinct that even the technology of the twentieth century has not been able to attain it. For instance, look at the book you are reading, your hands with which you are holding it, and then lift your head and look around you. Have you ever seen su
c
h a sharp and distinct image as this one at any other place? Even the most developed television screen produced by the greatest television producer in the world cannot provide such a sharp image for you. This is a three-dimensional, colored, and extremely
 
sharp image. For more than 100 years, thousands of engineers have been trying to achieve this sharpness. Factories, huge premises were established, much research has been done, plans and designs have been made for this purpose. Again, look at a TV screen 
and the book you hold in your hands. You will see that there is a big difference in sharpness and distinction. Moreover, the TV screen shows you a two-dimensional image, whereas with your eyes, you watch a three-dimensional perspective with depth. 
\par For many
 years, tens of thousands of engineers have tried to make a three-dimensional TV and achieve the vision quality of the eye. Yes, they have made a three-dimensional television system, but it is not possible to watch it without putting on special 3-D glasse
s
; moreover, it is only an artificial three-dimension. The background is more blurred, the foreground appears like a paper setting. Never has it been possible to produce a sharp and distinct vision like that of the eye. In both the camera and the televisio
n, there is a loss of image quality.
\par Evolutionists claim that the mechanism producing this sharp and distinct image has been formed by chance. Now, if somebody told you that the television in your room was formed as a result of chance, that all of its atoms
 just happened to come together and make up this device that produces an image, what would you think? How can atoms do what thousands of people cannot?
\par If a device producing a more primitive image than the eye could not have been formed by chance, then it 
is very evident that the eye and the image seen by the eye could not have been formed by chance. The same situation applies to the ear. The outer ear picks up the available sounds by the auricle and directs them to the middle ear, the middle ear transmits
 the sound vibrations by intensifying them, and the inner ear sends these vibrations to the brain by translating them into electric signals. Just as with the eye, the act of hearing finalizes in the center of hearing in the brain. 
\par The situation in the eye 
is also true for the ear. That is, the brain is insulated from sound just as it is from light. It does not let any sound in. Therefore, no matter how noisy is the outside, the inside of the brain is completely silent. Nevertheless, the sharpest sounds are
 
perceived in the brain. In your completely silent brain, you listen to symphonies, and hear all of the noises in a crowded place. However, were the sound level in your brain was measured by a precise device at that moment, complete silence would be found 
to be prevailing there. 
\par As is the case with imagery, decades of effort have been spent in trying to generate and reproduce sound that is faithful to the original. The results of these efforts are sound recorders, high-fidelity systems, and systems for sens
ing sound. Despite all of this technology and the thousands of engineers and experts who have been working on this endeavor, no sound has yet been obtained that has the same sharpness and clarity as the sound perceived by the ear. Think of the highest-qua
lity hi-fi systems produced by the largest company in the music industry. Even in these devices, when sound is recorded some of it is lost; or when you turn on a }{\f0\fs22\expnd-1\expndtw-5\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
hi-fi you always hear a hissing sound before the music starts. However, the sounds that are the
 products of the human body's technology are extremely sharp and clear. A human ear never perceives a sound accompanied by a hissing sound or with atmospherics as does a hi-fi; rather, it perceives sound exactly as it is, sharp and clear. This is the way 
it has been since the creation of man.}{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par So far, no man-made visual or recording apparatus has been as sensitive and successful in perceiving sensory data as are the eye and the ear. However, as far as seeing and hearing are concerned, a far greater truth lies beyond all this. 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \b\f8\fs24\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par }\pard \s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid1589504 {\f0\fs28\insrsid14290980 \page }{\f0\fs28\insrsid3626024\charrsid1589504 To Whom Does the Consciousness that Sees and }{
\f0\fs28\insrsid14290980 
\par }{\f0\fs28\insrsid3626024\charrsid1589504 Hears within the Brain Belong? 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
Who watches an alluring world in the brain, listens to symphonies and the twittering of birds, and smells the rose?
\par The stimulations coming from a person's 
eyes, ears, and nose travel to the brain as electro-chemical nerve impulses. In biology, physiology, and biochemistry books, you can find many details about how this image forms in the brain. However, you will never come across the most important fact: Wh
o
 perceives these electro-chemical nerve impulses as images, sounds, odors, and sensory events in the brain? There is a consciousness in the brain that perceives all this without feeling any need for an eye, an ear, and a nose. To whom does this consciousn
ess belong? Of course it does not belong to the nerves, the fat layer, and neurons comprising the brain. This is why Darwinist-materialists, who believe that everything is comprised of matter, cannot answer these questions. 
\par For this consciousness is the spirit created by God, which needs neither the eye to watch the images nor the ear to hear the sounds. Furthermore, it does not need the brain to think. 
\par Everyone who reads this explicit and scientific fact should ponder on Almighty God, and fear and seek re
fuge in Him, for He squeezes the entire universe in a pitch-dark place of a few cubic centimeters in a three-dimensional, colored, shadowy, and luminous form.}{\f0\fs22\expnd-1\expndtw-5\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \b\f8\fs24\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs28\insrsid3626024\charrsid1589504 A Materialist Faith

\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\expnd-1\expndtw-5\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
The information we have presented so far shows us that the theory of evoluti
on is a incompatible with scientific findings. The theory's claim regarding the origin of life is inconsistent with science, the evolutionary mechanisms it proposes have no evolutionary power, and fossils demonstrate that the required intermediate forms h
ave never existed. So, it certainly follows that the theory of evolution should be pushed aside as an unscientific idea. This is how many ideas, such as the Earth-centered universe model, have been taken out of the agenda of science throughout history. 

\par However, the theory of evolution is kept on the agenda of science. Some people even try to represent criticisms directed against it as an "attack on science." Why?
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 The reason is that this theory is an indispensable dogmatic belief for some circles. These circ
les are blindly devoted to materialist philosophy and adopt Darwinism because it is the only materialist explanation that can be put forward to explain the workings of nature.}{\f0\fs22\expnd-1\expndtw-5\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par Interestingly enough, they also confess this fact from time to time. A well-known geneticist and an outspoken evolutionist, Richard C. Lewontin from Harvard University, confesses that he is "first and foremost a materialist and then a }{
\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 scientist":
\par }\pard\plain \s17\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\i\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
It is not that the methods and institutions of sc
ience somehow compel us accept a material explanation of the phenomenal world, but, on the contrary, that we are forced by our a priori adherence to material causes to create an apparatus of investigation and a set of concepts that produce material explan
ations, no matter how counter-intuitive, no matter how mystifying to the uninitiated. Moreover, that materialism is absolute, so we cannot allow a Divine Foot in the door.}{\f0\fs22\up6\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 19}{
\i\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
These are explicit statements that Darwinism is a dogma kept alive just for the sak
e of adherence to materialism. This dogma maintains that there is no being save matter. Therefore, it argues that inanimate, unconscious matter created life. It insists that millions of different living species (e.g., birds, fish, giraffes, tigers, insect
s
, trees, flowers, whales, and human beings) originated as a result of the interactions between matter such as pouring rain, lightning flashes, and so on, out of inanimate matter. This is a precept contrary both to reason and science. Yet Darwinists contin
ue to defend it just so as "not to allow a Divine Foot in the door."
\par Anyone who does not look at the origin of living beings with a materialist prejudice will see this evident truth: All living beings are works of a Creator, Who is All-Powerful, All-Wise, a
nd All-Knowing. This Creator is God, Who created the whole universe from non-existence, designed it in the most perfect form, and fashioned all living beings.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \b\f8\fs24\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs28\insrsid3626024\charrsid1589504 
The Theory of Evolution: The Most Potent Spell in the World 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
Anyone free of prejudice and the in
fluence of any particular ideology, who uses only his or her reason and logic, will clearly understand that belief in the theory of evolution, which brings to mind the superstitions of societies with no knowledge of science or civilization, is quite impos
sible.
\par As explained above, those who believe in the theory of evolution think that a few atoms and molecules thrown into a huge vat could produce thinking, reasoning professors and university students; such scientists as Einstein and Galileo; such artists a
s Humphrey Bogart, Frank Sinatra and Luciano Pavarotti; as well as antelopes, lemon trees, and carnations. Moreover, as the scientists and professors who believe in this nonsense are educated people, it is quite justifiable to speak of this theory as "the
 
most potent spell in history." Never before has any other belief or idea so taken away peoples' powers of reason, refused to allow them to think intelligently and logically and hidden the truth from them as if they had been blindfolded. This is an even wo
r
se and unbelievable blindness than the Egyptians worshipping the Sun God Ra, totem worship in some parts of Africa, the people of Saba worshipping the Sun, the tribe of Prophet Abraham (pbuh) worshipping idols they had made with their own hands, or the pe
ople of the Prophet Moses (pbuh) worshipping the Golden Calf.
\par In fact, God has pointed to this lack of reason in the Qur'an. In many verse, He reveals in many verses that some peoples' minds will be closed and that they will be powerless to see the truth. Some of these verses are as follows:
\par }\pard\plain \s18\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \b\f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\insrsid7155957 
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 As for those who do not believe, it makes no difference to them whether you warn them or do not warn them, they will not believe. God has sealed up their hear
ts and hearing and over their eyes is a blindfold. They will have a terrible punishment. (Qur'an, 2:6-7)
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid7155957 
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 \'85 They have hearts with which they do not understand. They have eyes with which they do not see. They have ears with which they do not hear. Such peop
le are like cattle. No, they are even further astray! They are the unaware. (Qur'an, 7:179)
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid7155957 
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 Even if We opened up to them a door into heaven, and they spent the day ascending through it, they would only say: "Our eyesight is befuddled! Or rather we have been put under a spell!" (Qur'an, 15:14-15) 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\insrsid7155957 
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 Words cannot express just how astonishing it is that this spell should hold such a wide community in thrall, keep people from the truth, and not be broken for 150 years. It is understandable that one or a few peo
ple might believe in impossible scenarios and claims full of stupidity and illogicality. However, "magic" is the only possible explanation for people from all over the world believing that unconscious and lifeless atoms suddenly decided to }{
\f0\fs22\expnd-1\expndtw-5\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 come together an
d form a universe that functions with a flawless system of organization, discipline, reason, and consciousness; a planet named Earth with all of its features so perfectly suited to life; and living things full of countless complex systems. 
\par In fact, the Qu
r'an relates the incident of Prophet Moses (pbuh) and Pharaoh to show that some people who support atheistic philosophies actually influence others by magic. When Pharaoh was told about the true religion, he told Prophet Moses (pbuh) to meet with his own 
magicians. When Moses (pbuh) did so, he told them to demonstrate their abilities first. The verses continue:}{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par }\pard\plain \s18\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \b\f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\insrsid7155957 
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 He said: "You throw." And when they threw, they cast a spell on the people's eyes and caused them to feel great fear of them. They produced an extremely powerful magic. (Qur'an, 7:116)
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\insrsid7155957 
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
As we have seen, Pharaoh's magicians were able to deceive everyone, apart from Moses (pbuh) and those who believed in him. However, his evidence broke the spell, or "swallowed up what they had forged," as the verse puts it.
\par }\pard\plain \s18\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \b\f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\insrsid1769530 
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 We revealed to Moses, "Throw down your staff." And it immediately swallowed up what they had forged. So the Truth took place and what they did was shown to be false. (Qur'an, 7:117-118)
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\insrsid1769530 
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
As we can see, when people realized that a spell had been cast upon them and that what they saw was just an illusion, Pharaoh's magicians lost all credibility. In the present day too, unless those who, under the influence of a similar spell, believe in th
e
se ridiculous claims under their scientific disguise and spend their lives defending them, abandon their superstitious beliefs, they also will be humiliated when the full truth emerges and the spell is broken. In fact, world-renowned British writer and ph
ilosopher Malcolm Muggeridge also stated this:
\par }\pard\plain \s17\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\i\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
I myself am convinced that the theory of evolution, especially the extent to which it's been applied, will be one of the great jokes in the history books in the future. Posterity will marvel that so very flimsy
 and dubious an hypothesis could be accepted with the incredible credulity that it has.}{\f0\fs22\up6\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 20}{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
That future is not far off: On the contrary, people will soon see that "chance" is not a deity, and will look back on the theory of evolution as the worst deceit and 
the most terrible spell in the world. That spell is already rapidly beginning to be lifted from the shoulders of people all over the world. Many people who see its true face are wondering with amazement how they could ever have been taken in by it.}{
\f0\fs22\insrsid1769530 
\par }\pard\plain \qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid1769530 \f8\fs24\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\b\f0\fs22\insrsid1769530 
\par }\pard \qc \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid14290980 {\b\f0\fs22\insrsid1769530\charrsid1769530 They said \'93Glory be to You! We have no
\par knowledge except what You have thought us.
\par You are the All-Knowing, the All-Wise.\'94
\par (Qur\rquote an, 2: 32)}{\f0\fs22\insrsid1769530\charrsid1769530 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \li0\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid1769530 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\insrsid1769530 \page }{\b\f0\fs36\insrsid3626024\charrsid1769530 NOTES:
\par }\pard\plain \qj \li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid1769530 \f8\fs24\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par 
\par 1. Sidney Fox, Klaus Dose, }{\i\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 Molecular Evolution and The Origin of Life}{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 , W.H. Freeman and Company, San Francisco, 1972, p. 4.
\par 2. Alexander I. Oparin, }{\i\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 Origin of Life}{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 , Dover Publications, NewYork, 1936, 1953 (reprint), p. 196.
\par 3. "New Evidence on Evolution of Early Atmosphere and Life", }{\i\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 Bulletin of the American Meteorological Society}{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 , vol 63, November 1982, p. 1328-1330.
\par 4. Stanley Miller, }{\i\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 Molecular Evolution of Life: Current Status of the Prebiotic Synthesis of Small Molecules}{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 , 1986, p. 7.
\par 5. Jeffrey Bada,}{\i\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267  Earth}{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 , February 1998, p. 40.
\par 6. Leslie E. Orgel, "The Origin of Life on Earth", }{\i\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 Scientific American}{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 , vol. 271, October 1994, p. 78.
\par 7. Charles Darwin, }{\i\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 The Origin of Species by Means of Natural Selection, }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 The Modern Library, New York, p. 127.
\par 8. Charles Darwin, }{\i\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 The Origin of Species: A Facsimile of the First Edition}{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 , Harvard University Press, 1964, p. 184.
\par 9. B. G. Ranganathan, }{\i\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 Origins?}{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 , Pennsylvania: The Banner Of Truth Trust, 1988, p. 7.
\par 10. Charles Darwin, }{\i\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 The Origin of Species: A Facsimile of the First Edition}{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 , Harvard University Press, 1964, p. 179.
\par 11. Derek A. Ager, "The Nature of the Fossil Record", }{\i\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 Proceedings of the British Geological Association}{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 , vol 87, 1976, p. 133.
\par 12. Douglas J. Futuyma, }{\i\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 Science on Trial}{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 , Pantheon Books, New York, 1983. p. 197.
\par 13. Solly Zuckerman, }{\i\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 Beyond The Ivory Tower}{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 , Toplinger Publications, New York, 1970, pp. 75-14; Charles E. Oxnard, "
The Place of Australopithecines in Human Evolution: Grounds for Doubt", }{\i\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 Nature}{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 , vol 258, p. 389.
\par 14. "Could science be brought to an end by scientists' belief that they have final answers or by society's reluctance to pay the bills?" }{\i\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 Scientific American}{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 , D
ecember 1992, p. 20.
\par 15. Alan Walker, }{\i\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 Science}{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 , vol. 207, 7 March 1980, p. 1103; A. J. Kelso, }{\i\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 Physical Antropology}{
\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 , 1st ed., J. B. Lipincott Co., New York, 1970, p. 221; M. D. Leakey, }{\i\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 Olduvai Gorge}{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
, vol. 3, Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, 1971, p. 272.
\par 16. Jeffrey Kluger, "Not So Extinct After All: The Primitive Homo Erectus May Have Survived Long Enough To Coexist With Modern Humans", }{\i\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 Time}{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 , 23 December 1996.
\par 17. S. J. Gould, }{\i\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 Natural History}{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 , vol. 85, 1976, p. 30.
\par 18. Solly Zuckerman, }{\i\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 Beyond The Ivory Tower}{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 , p. 19.
\par 19. Richard Lewontin, "The Demon-Haunted World," }{\i\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 The New York Review of Books}{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 , January 9, 1997, p. 28.
\par 20. Malcolm Muggeridge, }{\i\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 The End of Christendom}{\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 , Grand Rapids:Eerdmans, 1980, p. 43.
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \f8\fs24\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid15433267 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\insrsid3626024\charrsid15433267 
\par }}