{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff8\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f8\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02040503060506020304}New York{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f36\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Geneva{\*\falt Arial};}
{\f37\fnil\fcharset0\fprq0{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}GaramondT\'fcrk{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f38\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}HelveticaT\'fcrk{\*\falt Courier New};}
{\f39\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}PalatinoT?rk{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f100\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f101\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f103\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f104\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f105\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew){\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f106\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic){\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f107\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f108\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese){\*\falt Times New Roman};}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;
\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs24\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 
\snext0 Normal;}{\s1\qc \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30 \faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\f8\fs40\expnd11\expndtw55\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 1;}{
\s2\qc \li0\ri0\sl-220\slmult0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\f8\fs28\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 2;}{
\s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\f8\fs24\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 3;}{\s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\b\f8\fs28\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 4;}{\s5\ql \li0\ri0\sb240\sa60\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel4\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\i\f8\fs26\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 
\sbasedon0 \snext0 \styrsid11813135 heading 5;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}{\*
\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\trcbpat1\trcfpat1\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}{\s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f8\fs18\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 \sbasedon0 \snext15 anametin;}{\s16\qr \fi283\li0\ri0\sa283\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30 \faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\b\f8\fs22\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 \sbasedon0 \snext16 basl\'fdk;}{\s17\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sa113\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\b\f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 \sbasedon0 \snext17 arabasl\'fdk;}{\s18\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sa57\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 
\sbasedon0 \snext18 altbasl\'fdk;}{\s19\qj \li283\ri0\sb43\sa43\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin283\itap0 \b\f8\fs18\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 \sbasedon0 \snext19 ayet;}{
\s20\qj \li283\ri0\sb43\sa43\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin283\itap0 \f8\fs18\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 \sbasedon0 \snext20 al\'fdnt\'fd;}{\s21\qj \li0\ri0\sl-240\slmult0
\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\f38\fs16\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 \sbasedon0 \snext21 RES\'ddMALTI;}{\s22\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-260\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f8\fs16\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 \sbasedon0 \snext22 MET\'ddN YAZISI;}{\s23\qj \li283\ri0\sb43\sl-230\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin283\itap0 \f8\fs16\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 
\sbasedon0 \snext23 AYET\'dcST;}{\s24\qj \li283\ri0\sa43\sl-230\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin283\itap0 \f8\fs16\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 \sbasedon0 \snext24 AYET ALT;}{\s25\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-320\slmult0
\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f37\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 \sbasedon0 \snext25 MET\'ddN YAZISI \'df;}{\s26\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \cbpat9 
\f36\fs24\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 \sbasedon0 \snext26 \ssemihidden Document Map;}{\s27\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs24\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 
\sbasedon0 \snext27 footer;}{\*\cs28 \additive \sbasedon10 page number;}{\*\cs29 \additive \ul\cf2 \sbasedon10 Hyperlink;}{\s30\qj \fi454\li0\ri0\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\tx8647\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f39\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 \sbasedon0 \snext30 \styrsid11813135 Normal Metin;}{\s31\ql \li0\ri0\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f36\fs22\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 
\sbasedon0 \snext31 \styrsid11813135 Body Text;}{\s32\qj \fi454\li0\ri0\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 \sbasedon0 \snext32 \styrsid1986441 ANA METIN;}}
{\*\rsidtbl \rsid935476\rsid1986441\rsid4024387\rsid4155015\rsid6030230\rsid7484301\rsid7491103\rsid7828778\rsid8283782\rsid10567358\rsid11813135\rsid12000647\rsid16007368}{\*\generator Microsoft Word 10.0.2627;}{\info{\title THE SECRETS OF DNA}
{\author HARUN YAHYA}{\operator A A}{\creatim\yr2002\mo10\dy19\hr13\min54}{\revtim\yr2004\mo9\dy5\hr19\min8}{\printim\yr2001\mo8\dy3\hr18\min14}{\version7}{\edmins44}{\nofpages36}{\nofwords15459}{\nofchars88117}{\*\company  }{\nofcharsws103370}
{\vern16437}}\margl1701\margr1134\margt1134\margb1134 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\hyphhotz0\sprstsp\otblrul\brkfrm\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\sprstsm\truncex\nolead\nospaceforul\msmcap\lytprtmet\hyphcaps0\horzdoc\dghspace120\dgvspace120
\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow0\dgvshow3\jcompress\viewkind1\viewscale100\nolnhtadjtbl\rsidroot7491103 \fet0\sectd \linex0\headery709\footery709\colsx708\endnhere\titlepg\sectdefaultcl\sectrsid1986441\sftnbj {\footer \pard\plain 
\s27\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\pvpara\phmrg\posxr\posy0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs24\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\field{\*\fldinst {\cs28\insrsid1986441 PAGE  }}{\fldrslt {
\cs28\lang1024\langfe1024\noproof\insrsid8283782 36}}}{\cs28\insrsid1986441 
\par }\pard \s27\ql \li0\ri360\widctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\faauto\adjustright\rin360\lin0\itap0 {\insrsid1986441 
\par }}{\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s4\qc \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\b\f8\fs28\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs96\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
\par 
\par }\pard \s4\qc \li0\ri0\sb120\sa120\sl360\slmult1\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid11813135 {\f0\fs96\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 THE
\par SECRETS
\par OF DNA
\par }\pard \s4\qc \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs96\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
\par 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs24\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s4\qc \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\f8\fs28\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs52\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 HARUN YAHYA
\par }\pard\plain \qc \li0\ri0\sl-260\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs24\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs52\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 \page 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par }{\f0\fs32\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 TA-HA Publishers Ltd. 
\par 
\par I Wynne Road London SW9 OBB UK. 
\par 
\par 
\par }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\sl-260\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs32\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 Tel: 00442077377266 
\par 
\par 
\par Fax: 00442077377267 
\par 
\par http://www.taha.co.uk. 
\par 
\par e-mail: }{\field\flddirty{\*\fldinst {\f0\fs32\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301  HYPERLINK mailto:sales@taha.co.uk }{\f0\fs32\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid6030230\charrsid7484301 {\*\datafield 
00d0c9ea79f9bace118c8200aa004ba90b020000001700000011000000730061006c0065007300400074006100680061002e0063006f002e0075006b000000e0c9ea79f9bace118c8200aa004ba90b300000006d00610069006c0074006f003a00730061006c0065007300400074006100680061002e0063006f002e007500
6b000000001600}}}{\fldrslt {\cs29\ul\cf2\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 sales@taha.co.uk}}}{\f0\fs32\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid11813135 \b\f8\fs28\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs52\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid11813135 \f8\fs24\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid11813135\charrsid7484301 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par }{\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid11813135 
\par }{\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
\par }{\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid11813135\charrsid7484301 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\sl480\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid11813135 {\b\f0\fs32\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid11813135\charrsid7484301 ABOUT THE AUTHOR}{
\b\f0\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid11813135\charrsid7484301 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid11813135 {\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid11813135\charrsid7484301 
\par The author, who writes under the pen-name HARUN YAHYA, was born in Anka
ra in 1956. Having completed his primary and secondary education in Ankara, he then studied arts at Istanbul's Mimar Sinan University and philosophy at Istanbul University. Since the 1980s, the author has published many books on political, faith-related a
nd scientific issues. Harun Yahya is well-known as an author who has written very important works disclosing the imposture of evolutionists, the invalidity of their claims and the dark liaisons between Darwinism and bloody ideologies. 
\par His pen-name is made 
up of the names "Harun" (Aaron) and "Yahya" (John), in memory of the two esteemed prophets who fought against lack of faith. The Prophet's seal on the cover of the author's books has a symbolic meaning linked to their contents. This seal represents the Qu
r
'an as the last Book by Allah and the last word of Him and our Prophet, the last of all the prophets. Under the guidance of the Qur'an and Sunnah, the author makes it his main goal to disprove each one of the fundamental tenets of godless ideologies and t
o have the "last word", so as to completely silence the objections raised against religion. The seal of the Prophet, who attained ultimate wisdom and moral perfection, is used as a sign of his intention of saying this last word. 
\par All these works by the auth
or centre around one goal: to convey the message of the Qur'an to people, thus encouraging them to think about basic faith-related issues, such as the existence of Allah, His unity and the hereafter, and to display the decrepit foundations and perverted w
orks of godless systems. 
\par Harun Yahya enjoys a wide readership in many countries, from India to America, England to Indonesia, Poland to Bosnia, and Spain to Brazil. Some of his books are available in English, French, German, Italian, Portuguese, Urdu, Arab
ic, Albanian, Russian, Serbo-Croat (Bosnian), Uygur Turkish, and Indonesian, and they have been enjoyed by readers all over the world. 
\par Greatly appreciated all around the world, these works have been instrumental in many people putting their faith in Allah
 and in many others gaining a deeper insight into their faith. The wisdom, and the sincere and easy-to-understand style employed give these books a distinct touch which directly strikes any one who reads or examines them. Immune to objections, these works
 
are characterised by their features of rapid effectiveness, definite results and irrefutability. It is unlikely that those who read these books and give a serious thought to them can any longer sincerely advocate the materialistic philosophy, atheism and 
a
ny other perverted ideology or philosophy. Even if they continue to advocate, this will be only a sentimental insistence since these books have refuted these ideologies from their very basis. All contemporary movements of denial are ideologically defeated
 today, thanks to the collection of books written by Harun Yahya. 
\par There is no doubt that these features result from the wisdom and lucidity of the Qur'an. The author certainly does not feel proud of himself; he merely intends to serve as a means in one's s
earch for Allah's right path. Furthermore, no material gain is sought in the publication of these works.
\par Considering these facts, those who encourage people to read these books, which open the "eyes" of the heart and guide them in becoming more devoted servants of Allah, render an invaluable service. 
\par Meanwhile, it would just be a waste of time and energy to propagate books which create confusion in peoples' minds, lead man into ideological chaos, and which, clearly have no strong and precise effects in rem
oving the doubts in peoples' hearts, as also verified from previous experience. It is apparent that it is impossible for books devised to emphasize the author's literary power rather than the noble goal of saving people from loss of faith, to have such a 
g
reat effect. Those who doubt this can readily see that the sole aim of Harun Yahya's books is to overcome disbelief and to disseminate the moral values of the Qur'an. The success, impact and sincerity this service has attained are manifest in the reader's
 conviction. 
\par One point needs to be kept in mind: The main reason for the continuing cruelty and conflict, and all the ordeals Muslims undergo is the ideological prevalence of disbelief. These things can only come to an end with the ideological defeat of di
sbelief and by ensuring that everybody knows about the wonders of creation and Qur'anic morality, so that people can live by it. Considering the state of the world today, which forces people into the downward spiral of violence, corruption and conflict, i
t is clear that this service has to be provided more speedily and effectively. Otherwise, it may be too late. 
\par It is no exaggeration to say that the collection of books by Harun Yahya have assumed this leading role. By the Will of Allah, these books will be
 the means through which people in the 21st century will attain the peace and bliss, justice and happiness promised in the Qur'an. 
\par 
\par The works of the author include The New Masonic Order, Judaism and Freemasonry, The Disasters Darwinism Brought to Humanity, Communism in Ambush, The Bloody Ideology of Darwinism: Fascism, Islam Denounces Terrorism, The 'Secret Hand' in Bosnia, Behind the
 
Scenes of The Holocaust, Behind the Scenes of Terrorism, Solution: The Morals of the Qur'an, Articles 1-2-3, A Weapon of Satan: Romanticism, Truths 1-2, The Western World Turns to God, The Evolution Deceit, Precise Answers to Evolutionists, Evolutionary F
a
lsehoods, Perished Nations, For Men of Understanding, The Prophet Moses, The Prophet Joseph, The Golden Age, Allah's Artistry in Colour, Glory is Everywhere, The Truth of the Life of This World, Knowing the Truth, Eternity Has Already Begun, Timelessness 
a
nd the Reality of Fate, The Dark Magic of Darwinism, The Religion of Darwinism, The Collapse of the Theory of Evolution in 20 Questions, Allah is Known Through Reason, The Qur'an Leads the Way to Science, The Real Origin of Life, Consciousness in the Cell
,
 A String of Miracles, The Creation of the Universe, Miracles of the Qur'an, Self-Sacrifice and Intelligent Behaviour Models in Animals, The End of Darwinism, Deep Thinking, Never Plead Ignorance, The Green Miracle Photosynthesis, The Miracle in the Cell,
 
The Miracle in the Eye, The Miracle in the Spider, The Miracle in the Gnat, The Miracle in the Ant, The Miracle of the Immune System, The Miracle of Creation in Plants, The Miracle in the Atom, The Miracle in the Honeybee, The Miracle of Seed, The Miracle
 of Hormone, The Miracle of the Termite, The Miracle of the Human Being, The Miracle of Man's Creation, The Miracle of Protein, The Secrets of DNA.
\par 
\par The author's childrens books are: Children Darwin Was Lying!, The World of Animals, The Splendour in the Skies, The World of Our Little Friends: The Ants, Honeybees That Build Perfect Combs, Skillful Dam Builders: Beavers. 
\par 
\par The author's other works on Quranic topics include: The Basic Concepts in the Qur'an, The Moral Values of the Qur'an, Quick Grasp of Faith 
1-2-3, Ever Thought About the Truth?, Crude Understanding of Disbelief, Devoted to Allah, Abandoning the Society of Ignorance, The Real Home of Believers: Paradise, Knowledge of the Qur'an, Qur'an Index, Emigrating for the Cause of Allah, The Character of
 
the Hypocrite in the Qur'an, The Secrets of the Hypocrite, The Names of Allah, Communicating the Message and Disputing in the Qur'an, Answers from the Qur'an, Death Resurrection Hell, The Struggle of the Messengers, The Avowed Enemy of Man: Satan, The Gre
a
test Slander: Idolatry, The Religion of the Ignorant, The Arrogance of Satan, Prayer in the Qur'an, The Importance of Conscience in the Qur'an, The Day of Resurrection, Never Forget, Disregarded Judgements of the Qur'an, Human Characters in the Society of
 
Ignorance, The Importance of Patience in the Qur'an, General Information from the Qur'an, The Mature Faith, Before You Regret, Our Messengers Say, The Mercy of Believers, The Fear of Allah, The Nightmare of Disbelief, Jesus Will Return, Beauties Presented
 
by the Qur'an for Life, A Bouquet of the Beauties of Allah 1-2-3-4, The Iniquity Called "Mockery", The Mystery of the Test, The True Wisdom According to the Qur'an, The Struggle with the Religion of Irreligion, The School of Yusuf, The Alliance of the Goo
d
, Slanders Spread Against Muslims Throughout History, The Importance of Following the Good Word, Why Do You Deceive Yourself?, Islam: The Religion of Ease, Enthusiasm and Excitement in the Qur'an, Seeing Good in Everything, How do the Unwise Interpret the
 Qur'an?, Some Secrets of the Qur'an, The Courage of Believers, Being Hopeful in the Qur'an, Justice and Tolerance in the Qur'an, Basic Tenets of Islam, Those Who do not Listen to the Qur'an.
\par }\pard\plain \s5\ql \li0\ri0\sb240\sa60\sl480\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel4\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid11813135 \b\i\f8\fs26\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {
\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid11813135\charrsid7484301 \page }{\i0\fs32\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid11813135\charrsid7484301 TO THE READER
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid11813135 \f8\fs24\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid11813135\charrsid7484301 
In all the books by the author, faith-related issu
es are explained in the light of the Qur'anic verses and people are invited to learn God's words and to live by them. All the subjects that concern God's verses are explained in such a way as to leave no room for doubt or question marks in the reader's mi
n
d. The sincere, plain and fluent style employed ensures that everyone of every age and from every social group can easily understand the books. This effective and lucid narrative makes it possible to read them in a single sitting. Even those who rigorousl
y reject spirituality are influenced by the facts recounted in these books and cannot refute the truthfulness of their contents. 
\par 
\par This book and all the other works of the author can be read individually or discussed in a group at a time of conversation. Th
ose readers who are willing to profit from the books will find discussion very useful in the sense that they will be able to relate their own reflections and experiences to one another. 
\par 
\par In addition, it will be a great service to the religion to contribut
e to the presentation and reading of these books, which are written solely for the good pleasure of God. All the books of the author are extremely convincing. For this reason, for those who want to communicate the religion to other people, one of the most
 effective methods is to encourage them to read these books.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s31\ql \li0\ri0\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid11813135 \f36\fs22\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid11813135\charrsid7484301 
It is hoped that the reader will take time to look through the review of other books on the final pages of the book, and appreciate the rich source of material on faith-related issues, which are very useful and a pleasure to read. 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid11813135 \f8\fs24\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid11813135\charrsid7484301 
\par In these books, you will not find, as in some other books, the personal views of the author, explanations based on dubious sources, styles that are unobservant of the respect and reverence due to sacred subjects, nor h
opeless, doubt-creating, and pessimistic accounts that create deviations in the heart.
\par }\pard\plain \s4\qc \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\f8\fs28\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs52\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid11813135 \f8\fs24\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid11813135\charrsid7484301 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s4\qc \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\f8\fs28\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\fs36\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid1986441 
\par }\pard \s4\qc \li0\ri0\sl360\slmult1\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid11813135 {\f0\fs36\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid1986441 CONTENTS
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs24\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qc \li0\ri0\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid11813135 \f8\fs18\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\b\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
\par }\pard \s15\ql \li0\ri0\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid11813135 {\b\f0\fs24\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 Introduction: A Major Milestone In The History Of Humanity 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\ql \li0\ri0\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid11813135 \b\f8\fs22\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs24\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
\par The Data Bank Of Life: DNA
\par 
\par The Question That Demolishes The Theory Of Evolution: How Did The Dna Originate? 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s17\ql \li0\ri0\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid11813135 \b\f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs24\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
The Theory Of Information And The End Of Materialism 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\ql \li0\ri0\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid11813135 \b\f8\fs22\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs24\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
The Ape-Man Similarity Is A Tale! 
\par }\pard \s16\ql \li0\ri0\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid11813135 {\f0\fs24\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
\par Darwinist-Materialist Misconceptions About The Human Genome Project 
\par 
\par Appendix: The Latest Fossil Claim Of The Theory Of Evolution Has Also Become History 
\par }{\f0\fs24\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid7484301\charrsid7484301 
\par NOTES
\par }\pard \s16\ql \li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
\par }\pard \s16\ql \li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
\par }\pard \s16\ql \li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\b0\f0\fs24\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qc \li0\ri0\sl-460\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs18\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs40\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 \page }{
\b\f0\fs32\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 INTRODUCTION:
\par }\pard \s15\qc \li0\ri0\sa240\sl480\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid7484301 {\b\f0\fs32\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 A MAJOR MILESTONE IN THE HISTORY OF HUMANITY
\par }\pard \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs22\expnd4\expndtw20\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 T}{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
oday is the day of a major milestone in history. The materialist philosophy, once imposed on the mass of humanity under the guise of science, is ironically being defeated today by science itself. 
\par Materialism, the philosophy which holds that everything is composed of matter and which denies the existence of God, is actually the contemporary version of paganism. An
cient pagans used to worship non-living beings like wooden or stone totem poles and considered them divine beings. Materialist philosophy, on the other hand, bases its claim on the belief that man and all other beings are created by atoms and molecules. A
ccording to this superstitious view, non-living atoms somehow organized themselves and over time acquired life and consciousness finally bringing man into being. 
\par This superstitious belief of materialism is called }{\b\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 "evolution"}{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 . The belief in evolution, first
 introduced in the pagan cultures of the ancient Sumerians and then the ancient Greeks, was in a way revived in the 19}{\f0\fs22\up4\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 th}{
\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301  century by a group of materialist scientists and brought onto the world agenda. Charles Darwin is the best known of these scientists. T
he theory of evolution he advanced wasted the time of the world of science for 150 years, and despite its widely acknowledged flawed nature, has been hitherto sustained for purely ideological reasons. 
\par However, as mentioned earlier, today, materialism is collapsing with a big boom. It is often stated that there were three important materialist theorists who steered the 19}{\f0\fs22\up4\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 th}{
\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301  century: }{\b\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 Freud, Marx and Darwin}{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
. The theories of the first two were examined, tested, and, proving to be invalid, subsequently rejected in the 20}{\f0\fs22\up4\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 th}{
\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301  century. Nowadays, the theory of Darwin is also collapsing. 
\par Some important developments in June 2000 accelerated this great collapse of materialism. 
\par First, scientists carrying out experiments to exceed the speed of light made a discovery which turned all scientific premises upside down. In an experiment in which the speed of light was exceeded many times, the scientists observed with astoni
shment that }{\b\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 the effect of the experiment occurred before its cause. }{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 This was the defeat of the claim of }{
\b\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 "causality"}{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301  that was put forward on the basis of materialist views, in the 19}{
\f0\fs22\up4\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 th}{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301  century. The subject was outlined in a newspaper under the headline }{
\b\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 "It has been proved that effect without cause is possible and that the end of an event can happen before its beginning"}{
\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 . Indeed, the occurrence of the effect of an action before the action that seems to be its cause, is scientific evidence that all events are 
created individually. This totally demolishes the materialist dogma. 
\par A few weeks later, it was revealed that }{\b\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
Archaeopteryx, a fossil bird presented as "the most important fossil evidence" by Darwinists for more than a century, was actually not evidence for, but a blow to the theory}{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
. When another fossil, some 75 million years older than this fossil which was allegedly the "primitive ancestor of birds", and no different from modern birds, was discovered, evolutionists were shocked. On June 25th, 2000, }{
\b\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 even a journal which used to present Archaeopteryx as the "primitive ancestor of birds"}{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
 was obliged to report the news item headlined }{\b\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 "The Ancestor of Birds Proved to be a Bird"}{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 . 
\par Finally, }{\b\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 the Human Genome Project}{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 , an attempt to draft a rough map of the human genome, was concluded and }
{\b\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 the details of the "genetic information", which highlighted how superior God's creation of living beings is, have been revealed to mankind.}{
\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301  Today, everyone who considers the results of this project and finds out that a single human 
cell contains enough information to be stored in thousands of encyclopaedia pages, grasps what a great miracle of creation this is. 
\par Nevertheless, evolutionists try to misinterpret this recent development, which, in truth, works against them, and present i
t as evidence for "evolution". Unable to explain even how the DNA chain of a tiny bacterium originated, evolutionists try to deliver messages such as "human genes resemble animal genes". Such messages are inaccurate and have no scientific value. They are 
designed to mislead society. Meanwhile, some press institutions, both because of their ignorance on the subject and their prejudiced approach, suppose that the Human Genome Project provides "evidence of evolution" and try to present it that way. 
\par In this bo
oklet, the abovementioned evolutionist misconceptions are explained and the irrational and shallow nature of the objections raised to creation are clarified. In addition, the severity of the blow the recent findings have struck against Darwinism is explic
itly revealed. 
\par When you read this book, you, too, will see that materialist philosophy which rejects God is about to meet its end and that in the 21}{\f0\fs22\up4\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 st}{
\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301  century, humanity will return to the real purpose of their creation by being relieved of deceits such as evolution. 
\par \page 
\par }\pard \s15\qc \fi284\li0\ri0\sa240\sl480\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid7484301 {\b\f0\fs32\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 THE DATA BANK OF LIFE: DNA
\par }\pard \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs22\expnd4\expndtw20\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 T}{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
he progress of science makes it clear that living beings have an extremely complex structure and an order to
o perfect to have come into being by coincidence. This is evidence to the fact that living beings are created by an All-Powerful Creator with superior knowledge. Recently, for instance, with the unravelling of the perfect structure in the human gene which
 became a prominent issue due to the Genome Project, the unique creation of God has once more been revealed for all to see. 
\par From the U.S.A. to China, scientists from all over the world have given their best efforts to decode the 3 billion chemical letters 
in DNA and to determine their sequence. As a result, 85% of the data included in the DNA of human beings could be sequenced properly. Although this is a very exciting and important development, as Dr. Francis Collins, who leads the Human Genome Project st
ates, so far, }{\f0\fs22\ul\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 only the first step}{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301  has been taken in the decoding of the information in DNA. 
\par In order to understand why the decoding of this information takes so long, we have to understand the nature of the information stored in DNA. }{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441 
\par }{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid7484301\charrsid7484301 
\par }\pard\plain \s18\qj \li0\ri0\sb360\sa120\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid7484301 \b\f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {
\f0\fs28\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 The Secret World of DNA
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs18\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
In the manufacture or management of a technological product or plant, the greatest tool employed is the experience and accumulation of knowledge that man has acquired over many centuries. The necessary knowledge and experience neede
d for the construction of the human body, the most advanced and sophisticated 'plant' on earth, is stored in DNA. The important point to note here is that DNA has always existed since the first human being in all its present perfection and complexity. As 
you read the lines below, you will also come to see clearly how unreasonable it is to claim, as evolutionists do, that such a molecule, with all its mind-blowing structure and properties, originated as a result of coincidences.
\par DNA is delicately protected in the nucleus located in the center of the cell. When it is recalled that human cells \endash  numbering up to 100 trillions \endash  have an average diameter of 10 microns(A micron is 10}{
\f0\fs22\up4\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 -6}{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301  m.), the smallness of the area in question is better understood. This miraculous
 molecule is a clear evidence of the perfection and extraordinary nature of God's art of creation. It is so much so that even a special branch of science has been set up to explore the secrets of this molecule, many of which still remain hidden. The name 
of this branch of science is "Genetics". Recognized as the science of the 21}{\f0\fs22\up4\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 st}{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
 century, genetics is still in the phase of crawling, as far as solving the mystery of DNA is concerned, despite all the technological means at its disposal.}{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441 
\par }{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid7484301\charrsid7484301 
\par }\pard\plain \s18\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\sb360\sa120\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid7484301 \b\f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {
\f0\fs28\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 Life in the Nucleus
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs18\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
If we compare the human body to a building, the body's complete plan and project down to its minute technical detail is present in DNA, which is located in the nucleus of each cell. All the developmental phases of a human being in the mother's womb and af
ter birth take place within the outlines of a predetermined program. This perfect order in the development of man is stated as follows in the Qur'an: 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\qj \li283\ri0\sb43\sa43\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin283\itap0 \b\f8\fs18\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
Does man reckon he will be left to go on unchecked? Was he not a drop of ejaculated sperm, then a blood-clot which He created and shaped. (Surat Al-Qiyama, 36-38)}{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441 
\par }{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid7484301\charrsid7484301 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs18\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
Right at the phase of a newly fertilized egg cell in the mother's womb, all the characteristics we will bear in the future have been determined within a certain destiny and coded in our DNAs in an o
rderly fashion. All our characteristics, such as our height, skin colour, blood type, facial features that we will bear when we come to our thirtieth year are encoded in the nucleus of our inaugural cell thirty years nine months beforehand, starting from 
the moment of insemination. 
\par The body of information in DNA does not only determine the physical properties we have mentioned above; it also controls thousands of other operations and systems running in the cell and the body. For instance, even the highness
, lowness, or normality of a person's blood pressure depends on the information stored in DNA. }{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441 
\par }{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid7484301\charrsid7484301 
\par }\pard\plain \s18\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\sb360\sa120\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid7484301 \b\f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {
\f0\fs28\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 The Huge Encyclopedia in the Human Cell}{\f0\fs28\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid7484301\charrsid7484301 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs18\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
The information stored in DNA must by no means be underestimated. Though hard to believe, in a single DNA molecule of a
 human being, there is enough information to fill exactly one million encyclopedia pages. Do consider it; exactly 1,000,000 encyclopedia pages\'85
 This is to say that the nucleus of each cell contains so much information as to fill a one-million-page-encyclop
edia, which is used to control the functions of the human body. To draw an analogy, we can state that even the 23-volume-Encyclopedia Britannica, one of the greatest encyclopedias of the world, has 25,000 pages. Therefore, before us lies an incredible pic
t
ure. In a molecule found in a nucleus, which is far smaller than the microscopic cell wherein it is located, there exists a data warehouse 40 times bigger than the biggest encyclopedia of the world that includes millions of items of information. This mean
s
 a 920-volume huge encyclopedia which is unique and has no equal in the world. Research puts it that this huge encyclopedia would be estimated to contain 5 billion different pieces of information. Were one piece of information present in human genes to be
 read every second, non-stop, around the clock, it would take 100 years before the process was completed. If we imagine that the information in DNA were put in the form of a book, then, these books put on top of each other would reach 70 meters high. 

\par }\pard \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 Let us repeat these two words just mentioned above; 'contain information'\'85

\par }\pard \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
We should stop here and consider these two words which we pronounce so simply. It is simple to say that a cell contains billions of pieces of information. Yet, this is far away from bein
g a detail that can be casually dropped as a remark. This is because what we talk about here is not a computer or a library, but just a cube that is 100 times smaller than a millimeter, simply made up of protein, fat and water molecules. It is an extremel
y amazing miracle for this infinitesimal piece of flesh to contain and store even a single bit of information-let alone millions of it. 
\par In the modern era, people use comput
ers to store information. The computer technology is today considered as the most advanced technology that paves the way to all other technologies. A body of information, which, 20 years ago, could be stored in a computer the size of a room, can today be 
s
tored in small "microchips", yet even the latest technology invented by human intelligence after centuries of accumulated knowledge and years of hard work is far from reaching the information storage capacity of a single cell nucleus. We think that the fo
llowing comparison would be sufficient to give a sense of the smallness of DNA, which has such an immense capacity:
\par }\pard\plain \s20\qj \li283\ri0\sb43\sa43\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin283\itap0 \f8\fs18\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
The information necessary to specify the design of all the species of organisms which have ever existed on the planet, a number according to 
G.G. Simpson of approximately one thousand million, could be held in a teaspoon and there would still be room left for all the information in every book ever written.}{\f0\fs22\up4\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 1}{
\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs18\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
How can a chain invisible to the eye, made up of atoms arranged sideways, with a diamete
r the size of a billionth of a millimeter, possess such an information capacity and memory? And also add the following to this question: While each one of the 100 trillion cells in your body knows one million pages of information by heart, how many encycl
opedia pages can you, as an intelligent and conscious human being, memorize in your entire life?}{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441 
\par }{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid7484301\charrsid7484301 
\par }\pard\plain \s18\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\sb360\sa120\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid7484301 \b\f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {
\f0\fs28\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 The Wisdom in the Cell
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs18\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
In this case, you must admit that any cell in your stomach or ear is much more learned than you, and since it makes use of this information in the most correct and perfect way, it is much more wise than you. 
\par What, then, is the source of this wisdom? How come every one of the 100 trillion cells in your body has come to possess such an incredible wisdom? These are, after all, piles of atoms
, and they are unconscious. Take the atoms of all the elements, combine them in different forms and numbers, obtain different molecules, still you can never obtain wisdom. Whether these molecules are big or small, simple or complex does not matter. You ca
n never obtain a mind that will consciously organize any process and accomplish it. 
\par Then how can it be that DNA, which is composed of the arrangement of a certain number of unwise and unconscious atoms in certain sequences, and enzymes, working in a harmon
ious way, is able to achieve much work and organise countless complicated and diverse operations in the cell in a perfect and complete manner? The answer to this is very simple; wisdom is not in these molecules or in the cell that contains them, but in th
e self who has brought these molecules into being, programming them to function as they do. 
\par Shortly put, wisdom is present not in the work done, but in the creator of that work. Even the most developed computer is the product of a wisdom and intellect that
 has written and installed the programs to operate it, and then used it. Likewise, the cell, DNA and RNAs in it, and the human being made up of these cells are nothing but the works of the One Who created them as well as what they do. No matter how perfec
t, complete and striking the work is, the wisdom always lies with the owner of the work. 
\par One day, if you found a diskette on the table in the computer laboratory, and after looking inside, discovered that it contains billions of items of information about 
you, the first question that would come to your mind would be who has written these pieces of information and why. 
\par So, why don't we ask the same question for the cell? If the information in the diskette was written by someone, then by whom DNA, which has 
a much more superior and advanced technology, is designed in the most perfect manner, created, and placed in the tiny cell, which, by itself, is another miracle. Besides it has not lost any of its properties for thousands of years until our day. (Bear in 
m
ind that the brain of the human being who makes the diskette and saves the data in it, is also made up of these cells.) What can be more important for you than to question by whom and why these cells, that function non-stop for you to read these lines, se
e, breathe, think, in brief, to exist and continue to exist, have been brought into being?
\par Is not the answer to this question that which, in life, you must wonder about most?
\par }\pard\plain \s18\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\sb360\sa120\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid7484301 \b\f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {
\f0\fs28\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 A Few More Examples
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs18\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
It is a well-known method: the travellers, who get stuck in an
 isolated land as a result of a plane crash, draw a big 'X' to show their places to the rescue team that looks for them from the air. Using their belongings or the objects they have collected, they make a big cross-shaped sign. In this way the rescue team
 that sets out on reconnaissance from the air, sees this sign which is a 'product of wisdom' and understands that there are conscious living beings, that is, human beings in that place. 
\par While travelling along on Turkish highways, you sometimes see inscript
ions made of white stones on the slopes of the hills like; 'Everything is for the motherland'. How these writings have come to form on those hills is quite clear. In most cases, there is a military unit around and they write such inscriptions with white s
tones on the hill while clearing the zone.
\par Well, can anybody come up and say that these inscriptions are not written by a conscious mind, in this case the soldiers, and instead formed by coincidence? Can anybody say that 'these stones came side by side by c
hance while rolling down the hill and formed the sentence 'Everything is for the motherland'"?
\par Or if a 'scientist' comes up and says 'there are trillions of stones in the world and they have been rolling over for millions of years, so it is possible that s
ome of these stones came together by coincidence as to make this meaningful sentence', would he not be ridiculed even by children? In addition to this, if he uses a scientific style, makes some scientific explanations, and puts forward some probability ca
lculations, would everybody not further doubt about his mind? 
\par The main idea we would like to give with these examples is this: If there is even the slightest sign of something planned somewhere, there certainly lies the traces of an owner of wisdom in that
 place. No product of wisdom would form by chance. If you roll white stones down the mountain billions of times, you would never obtain even a proper 'H', let alone a sentence such as "Everything is for the motherland". If there is a letter somewhere, eve
rybody accepts that that letter is written by somebody. There would be no letter without a writer. 
\par The human body is trillions of times more complicated than the sentence 'Everything is for the motherland', and it is definitely impossible for this complex 
structure to have been formed on its own, or by sheer "coincidence". Therefore, there is a Creator Who has planned and designed both the human and his cell and his DNA excellently and perfectly. To claim the contrary would be the most unwise thing possibl
e, and moreover a greatest insincerity and insolence. This would be a great disrespect against the owner of that wisdom and power. 
\par Nevertheless, many people, who would readily say that it is impossible for stones to be arranged within themselves and form e
ven three little words, can listen without objection the deceit that it was all as a result of "coincidences" that billions of atoms came together one by one in a planned sequence and formed a molecule such as DNA, which performs such a super-complex task
. This is just like a hypnotized person's submitting to the hypnotist and accepting by suggestion that he is a door, tree or a lizard\'85}{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441 
\par }{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid10567358\charrsid7484301 
\par }\pard\plain \s18\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\sb360\sa120\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid10567358 \b\f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {
\f0\fs28\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 The Language of the DNA Encyclopedia
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid10567358 \f8\fs18\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
The life of societies is based on information flow, and communication. The most impo
rtant tool in the information flow between individuals and generations is language. Language is represented by specific codes, which are letters. English is a language made up of 26 letters or we may say 26 codes. These codes make up words and words in tu
rn make up sentences. The information flow and storage is realised by means of these codes. 
\par }\pard \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
The language in the cell is similar to this. All the physical traits of a human being are stored in the cell nucleus being coded by this language, and it can be use
d by the cell again by way of this language. This language is that of the master molecule, called DNA. The DNA language is made up of 4 letters; A, T, G and C. Every letter represents one of the four special bases called 'nucleotides'. Millions of these b
ases line up in a meaningful sequence and make up the DNA molecule. 
\par That is how the information in the data bank in the nucleus is stored. While we describe the coding system in this data warehouse, we will continue to
 use this letter analogy for the nucleic acid molecules which constitute DNA. These letters match in twos each forming a base pair in this way. These base pairs add on top of each other to form the genes. Each gene, which comprises one portion of DNA mole
c
ule, determines a particular feature of the human body. Countless properties like height, eye colour, the material and the shape of the nose, ear, and skull are formed by the command of the related genes. We can compare every one of these genes to the pag
es of a book. On the pages there are scripts made up of the letters A \endash  T \endash  G \endash  C.
\par There are approximately 200,000 genes in the DNA of a human cell. Every gene is composed of a special sequence of nucleotides, the number of which ranges between 1000 and 186
,000 according to the type of the protein it correlates. These genes hold the codes of nearly 200,000 proteins that function in the human body and control the production of these proteins.
\par The information stored in these 200,000 genes constitute only 3 % o
f the total information in DNA. The remaining 97 % still maintains its mystery today. The recent studies showed that this 97 % unknown part includes vital information about the survival of the cell and the mechanisms that control the highly complex activi
ties within the body. Yet there is still a great distance to go. 
\par The genes are located in the chromosomes. There are 46 chromosomes in the nucleus of every human cell (except for the reproduction cells). If we compare every one of the chromosomes to a book
 volume made up of gene pages, we may say that in the cell lies a 46-volume "cell encyclopedia" which covers all the characteristics of a human being. Remembering the previous encyclopedia example, this cell encyclopedia is equivalent to the knowledge con
tained in a 920-volume 'Encyclopedia Britannica'. 
\par The sequence of letters in the DNA of every human is different. This is the basic reason why the billions of people who have ever lived on earth look different from each other. The basic structure and funct
ions of organs are the same in every person. However, every person is created in such a detailed and special manner with such subtle differences that even though all people are created from the division of a single cell and have the same basic structure, 
billions of different people have come into existence. 
\par All the organs in our body are constructed within a plan outlined by our genes. To give a few examples, according to a gene map completed by scientists, in the human body, skin is controlled by 2,559, 
brain by 29,930, eye by 1,794, salivary glands by 186, heart by 6,216, chest by 4,001, lung by 11,581, liver by 2,309, intestine by 3,838, skeletal muscle by 1,911 and blood cells by 22,902 genes. 
\par The sequential order of the letters in DNA determines the 
structure of a human being down to his slightest details. In addition to features like height, eye, hair and skin colours, the DNA of a single cell also contains the design of 206 bones, 600 muscles, a network of 10.000 auditory muscles, a network of 2 mi
llion optic nerves, 100 billion nerve cells, and 100 trillion cells in the body. 
\par Now let us think in the light of the above information: Since even a letter cannot form without a writer writing it, how did billions of letters in the human cell originate? H
ow did these letters queue up in a meaningful sequence so as to make up the unique plan of such a perfect and complex body? If there were any break downs in the order of these letters you could have your ear on your abdomen or your eyes in your heels. You
 could have born with your hands stuck on your back, and lived as a freak. The secret of your living as a proper human currently lies in the 'flawless' sequence of the billions of letters in the 46-volume encyclopedia in your DNA.}{
\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid7828778 
\par }{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301  }{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441 
\par }\pard\plain \s18\qj \li0\ri0\sb360\sa120\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid7828778 \b\f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {
\f0\fs28\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 DNA Challenges Coincidence
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs18\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
Today mathematics has proved that coincidence does not play a role in the formation of the coded information within DNA, let alone the DNA molecule made up of millions of base pairs. The probability of the coincidental formation of even a single gene ou
t of the 200,000 genes making up DNA is so low that even the notion of impossible remains weak. Frank Salisbury, an evolutionist biologist, makes the following statement about this 'impossibility': 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\qj \li283\ri0\sb43\sa43\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin283\itap0 \f8\fs18\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
A medium protein might include about 300 amino acids. The DNA gene controlling this would have about 1,000 nucleotides in its chain. Since there are four kinds of nucleotides in a DNA chain, one consisting of 1,000 links could exist in 4}{
\f0\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 1000}{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301  forms. Using a little algebra (logarithms) we can see that 4}{
\f0\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 1000}{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 =10}{\f0\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 600}{
\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 . Ten multiplied by itself 600 times gives the figure 1 followed by 600 zeros! This number is completely beyond our comprehension.}{
\f0\fs22\up4\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 2}{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301  
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs18\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
That is to say that even if we assume that all the necessary nucleotides are present in a medium, and that all the complex 
molecules and enzymes to combine them were available, the possibility of the these nucleotides being arranged in the desired sequence is 1 in 4}{\f0\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 1000}{
\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 , in other words, 1 in 10}{\f0\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 600}{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
. Briefly, the probability of the coincidental formation of the code of an averag
e protein in the human body in DNA by itself is 1 in 1 followed by 600 zeros. This number, which is beyond even being astronomical, means in practice 'zero' probability. This means that such a sequence has to be effected under the control and knowledge of
 a wise and conscious power. There is zero probability of it happening by 'accident', 'chance', or 'coincidence'.
\par Think of the book you are reading right now. How would you regard someone who claimed that letters (by using a different printing stamp for eve
ry letter) have come together by chance on their own to form this writing? It is evident that it was written by an intelligent and conscious person. This is no different from the status of DNA. 
\par Francis Crick, the biochemist who discovered the structure of
 DNA, won a Nobel prize with respect to the research he had made on the subject. Crick, who was an ardent evolutionist, stated the following scientific opinion in a book he has written after testifying the miraculous structure of DNA: "An honest man, arme
d with all the knowledge available to us now, could only state that, in some sense, the origin of life appears at the moment to be almost a miracle."}{\f0\fs22\up4\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 3}{
\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301  Even in Crick's view, who was one of the biggest experts on DNA, life could never originate on earth spontaneously. 
\par The data in DNA, which is made up of 5 billion letters, is composed of a special and meaningful sequence of letters A-T-G-C. However, not even a single letter error should be made in this sequence. A misspelled word or a letter error in an encyc
lopedia may be overlooked and ignored. It would not even be noticed. However, even a single mistake in any base pair of DNA, such as a miscoded letter in the 1 billion 719 million 348 thousand 632}{
\f0\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 nd}{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301  base pair, would cause terrible results for the cell, and
 therefore for the person himself. For instance, haemophilia (child leukemia) is the outcome of such an erroneous coding. 
\par In truth, it would be incorrect to call this "erroneous coding", because like every other thing that exists, the human DNA, too, is c
reated by God and even the seldom occurring mistakes come about with respect to a hidden cause (divine purpose). The coding mistake which causes cancer is a specially created disorder. It is created specially for a certain hidden cause to show man his own
 weakness and impotence, remind him of the delicate balances man's creation depends on, and of what kind of troubles he may face in case of the slightest disturbance in these balances. }{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441 
\par }{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid7828778\charrsid7484301 
\par }\pard\plain \s18\qj \li0\ri0\sb360\sa120\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid7828778 \b\f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {
\f0\fs28\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 Self-Replication of DNA
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs18\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
As known, cells multiply by dividing. While the human body is initially composed of a single cell, this cell divides and reproduces by folds with a ratio of 2-4-8-16-32...
\par What happens to DNA at the end of this dividing process? There is only one DNA chain in the cell. However, it is evident that the 
newly formed cell will also require a DNA. In order to fill this gap, DNA completes an interesting series of operations, every phase of which is a different miracle. Finally, soon before the cell divides, it makes a copy of itself and transfers this to th
e new cell. 
\par The observations regarding the cell division show that the cell has to reach a specific size before dividing. The moment it exceeds this particular size, the division process automatically starts. While the shape of the cell begins to get smoot
her so as to accommodate the division process, DNA starts to replicate itself as mentioned earlier.
\par This means that the cell 'decides' to divide as a whole and the different parts of the cell start to act in accordance to this decision of dividing. It is e
vident that the cell is devoid of the consciousness to accomplish such a collective action. The division process starts with a secret order and the entire cell, foremost DNA, acts by this order. 
\par First, DNA divides into two to replicate itself. This event 
takes place in a very interesting manner. The DNA molecule which resembles a spiral ladder divides into two like a zip from the middle of the rungs of the ladder. From now on, DNA divides into two portions. The missing halves (replicates) of both of the t
w
o portions are completed with the materials present in the milieu. In this way, two new DNA molecules are produced. In every phase of the operation, expert proteins called "enzymes" that function like advanced robots take part. Though it seems simple at f
irst sight, the intermediary processes taking place throughout this operation are so many and so complicated that to describe the whole event in detail would take pages. 
\par The new DNA molecules that emerge during replication are checked repeatedly by inspect
or enzymes. If there is any mistake done - which can be quite vital, it is immediately identified and corrected. The erroneous code is removed and replaced by the correct one. All these processes take place at such a dazzling speed that while 3.000 base p
airs are produced in a minute, on the other hand, all these pairs are checked repeatedly by the enzymes in charge and the necessary amendments are made. 
\par In the newly produced DNA molecule, more mistakes can be done than normal as a result of external facto
rs. In this case, the ribosomes in the cell start to produce DNA repair enzymes upon the order given by DNA. Thus, as DNA protects itself, it also guarantees the preservation of the generation. 
\par The cells are born, they reproduce and die just like human be
ings. Yet the life spans of cells are much shorter than the life of the human they constitute. For instance, the majority of the cells that used to make up your body six months ago do not exist today. However, you are now able to survive because they have
 
divided on time to leave their places to the new ones. For this reason, highly complex operations like multiplication of the cells and replication of DNA are vital processes which cannot tolerate even a minor mistake in regards to man's survival. However,
 the multiplication process runs so smoothly that the rate of error is only one in 3 billion base pairs. And this one error is eliminated by the higher control mechanisms in the body without causing any problems. 
\par All through the day, while you are unaware, numerous operations and controls are made, many measures are taken in your body in an incredibly fastidious and responsible manner for you to lead your life without any problem. Every single thing carries out it
s
 duty successfully and completely. God has given to your service countless atoms and molecules, from the biggest to the smallest, from the simplest to the most complex, so that you may live a good and healthy life. Is even this blessing and favour alone n
ot sufficient for you to give thanks? Or should one always wait for problems to occur in this perfect system before coming to one's senses? 
\par The most interesting point is that these enzymes which help the production of DNA and control its composition are ac
tually proteins produced according to the information coded in DNA and under the command and control of DNA. There is such an intertwined, perfect system at work that it is by no means possible for such a system to have attained this state by gradual coin
cidences. Just as DNA has to exist for the enzyme to exist, so the enzyme has to exist for DNA to exist, and for both to exist, on the other hand, the cell has to exist completely, down to its membrane and all other complex organelles it contains. 
\par The theo
ry of evolution asserting that living beings evolved 'step by step' as a result of 'beneficial coincidences' is explicitly refuted by the above mentioned DNA-enzyme paradox. This is because both DNA and the enzyme have to exist at the same time. And this 
shows the existence of a conscious Creator, that is, God.}{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441 
\par }{\b\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid7828778\charrsid7484301 
\par }\pard\plain \s18\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\sb360\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs28\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
Evolutionists Cannot Explain How the Information
\par }\pard \s18\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\sa120\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid7828778 {\f0\fs28\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 in DNA Originated and How It Differs in Every Species

\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs18\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
While evolutionists can in no way bring any explanation to the subject of how DNA originated, t
here is yet another point where they reach an impasse. How come fish, reptiles, birds, human beings etc. have come to possess different DNAs and different types of information?
\par Evolutionists answer that question by saying that the body of information in DN
A developed and diversified over time by means of coincidences. The coincidences they refer to are "mutations". Mutations are changes which take place in DNA as a result of radiation or chemical action. Sometimes radioactive radiation happens to fall on a
 DNA chain and destroys or displaces several base pairs therein. According to evolutionists, living things have reached their present perfect state as a result of the diversification of a single DNA due to these mutations (i.e., accidents). 
\par To show that th
is claim is unreasonable, let us compare DNA to a book again. We have already mentioned that DNA is made up of letters lined up sideways just like in a book. Mutations are like the letter errors that occur during the type-setting of this book. If you like
,
 we can do an experiment on this subject. Let us ask for a thick book about the history of the world to be type-set. During the type-setting, let us intervene several times and tell the type-setter to press one of keys blindfolded and at random. Then let 
u
s give this text containing letter errors to someone else and have him do the same thing over again. Using this method, let us have the book type-set from the beginning to the end several times, thus having a few more letter errors added to it at random e
ach time...
\par Could this history book ever develop by this method? For instance, would an additional chapter named "The History of Ancient China", which previously was not present, emerge?
\par To be sure, the letter errors we have added to the book would not develop it, but rather ruin it and distort its meaning. The more we increase the number of faulty copying processes, the more spoiled our book will be. 
\par Yet the claim of the theory of evolution is that "letter errors help develop a book". According to evolutio
n, mutations (errors) occurring in DNA have led to beneficial results by accumulating and thus furnishing living beings with perfect organs such as eyes, ears, wings, hands and consciousness-related qualities such as thinking, learning, and reasoning.

\par Unqu
estionably, this claim is even more unreasonable than the above example of the addition of the chapter called "The History of Ancient China" to a book on world history as a result of the accumulation of letter errors. (Moreover there is no mechanism in na
ture that causes regular mutations as in the example of the type-setter making regular mistakes. The mutations in nature take place much more rarely than the letter errors that would occur during the type-setting of a book.)
\par Every "explanation" put forward by the theory of evolution on the origin of life is unreasonable and unscientific. One outspoken authority on this issue is the famous French zoologist Pierre Grass\'e9
, the former president of the French Academy of Sciences. Grass\'e9 is also an evolutionist, but he states clearly that Darwinist theory is unable to explain life and makes his point about the logic of "coincidence", which is the backbone of Darwinism:

\par }\pard\plain \s20\qj \li283\ri0\sb43\sa43\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin283\itap0 \f8\fs18\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
The opportune appearance of mutations permitting animals and plants to meet their needs seems har
d to believe. Yet the Darwinian theory is even more demanding: A single plant, a single animal would require thousands and thousands of lucky, appropriate events. Thus, miracles would become the rule: events with an infinitesimal probability could not fai
l to occur\'85 }{\b\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 There is no law against daydreaming, but science must not indulge in it.}{\f0\fs22\up4\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 4}{
\f0\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301  }{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs18\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
Indeed, the theory of evolution, which claims that inorganic matter came together by itself and formed living beings with such glorious systems as DNA, is a scenario tota
lly contrary to science and reason. All this leads us to an evident conclusion. Since life has a plan (DNA) and all living beings are fashioned according to this plan, it is evident that there is a superior Creator Who devised this plan. This simply means
 that all living beings are created by God, the All-Powerful, All-Wise. God states this fact in the Qur'an in this way: }{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441 
\par }{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid7828778\charrsid7484301 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\qj \li283\ri0\sb43\sa43\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin283\itap0 \b\f8\fs18\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 He is God \endash 
 the Creator, the Maker, the Giver of Form. To Him belong the Most Beautiful Names. Everything in the heavens and earth glorifies Him. He is the Almighty, the All-Wise. (Surat al-Hashr: 24)}{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441 
\par }{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid7828778\charrsid7484301 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs18\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
Today, what people have achieved by means of technology can at best be described as 'an approach to the understanding of a tiny fragment of God's knowledge, as manifested in human DNA.' 
\par On the other hand, the theory of evolution which tries to explain the origin of life as a series of }{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid7828778\charrsid7484301 coincidences}{
\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301  loses all validity in face of the question: "How then, did DNA originate?" 
\par }{\f0\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 \page 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\qc \li0\ri0\sb120\sa240\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\f8\fs22\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs32\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
THE QUESTION THAT DEMOLISHES THE THEORY OF EVOLUTION: HOW DID THE DNA ORIGINATE?}{\f0\fs32\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid7828778     }{\f0\fs32\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs18\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\expnd4\expndtw20\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid7828778 
\par }{\f0\fs22\expnd4\expndtw20\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 T}{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 he question of how such an extraordinarily designed
 molecule as DNA originated is one of the thousands of impasses evolutionists reach. Seeking to explain life by means of "coincidence", the theory of evolution can never explain the source of the extraordinary information so perfectly and meticulously enc
oded in DNA.
\par Moreover, the question is not only that of how the DNA chain originated. Even the existence of the DNA chain with the extraordinary information capacity it contains, means nothing by itself. In order to refer to life, it is essential that the e
nzymes that read this DNA chain, copy them and produce proteins, also exist. (Enzymes are large molecules that have certain functions in the cell which they carry out with the precision of a robot.) 
\par Simply put, in order to talk of life, both the data bank we call DNA, and the machines to carry out production by reading the data in the bank have to co-exist. 
\par To our surprise, enzymes, which read DNA and carry out production accordingly, are themselves produced according to the codes in DNA. This means that 
there is a factory in the cell that both makes many different types of products, and also manufactures the robots and machines that carry out this production. The question of how this system, which would be of no use with a minor defect in any of its mech
anisms originated, is by itself enough to demolish the theory of evolution. 
\par German evolutionist Douglas R. Hofstadler, states his despair in the face of this question: }{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441 
\par }{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid7828778\charrsid7484301 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\qj \li283\ri0\sb43\sa43\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin283\itap0 \f8\fs18\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 '}{
\b\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 How did the Genetic Code, along with the mechanisms for its translation }{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 (ribosomes and RNA molecules)}{
\b\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 , originate?' For the moment, we will have to content ourselves with a sense of wonder and awe, rather than with an answer.}{
\f0\fs22\up4\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 5}{\f0\fs22\up4\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441 
\par }{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid7828778\charrsid7484301 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs18\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
Another evolutionist authority, world renowned molecular biologist Leslie Orgel, is more outspoken on the subject: }{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441 
\par }{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid7828778\charrsid7484301 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\qj \li283\ri0\sb43\sa43\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin283\itap0 \f8\fs18\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\b\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
It is extremely improbable that proteins and nucleic acids}{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 , both of which are structurally complex, }{\b\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
arose spontaneously in the same place at the same time}{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 . Yet it also seems impossible to have one without the other. And so, at first glance, }{
\b\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 ONE MIGHT HAVE TO CONCLUDE THAT LIFE COULD NEVER, IN FACT, HAVE ORIGINATED BY CHEMICAL MEANS.}{\f0\fs22\up4\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 6}{
\f0\fs22\up4\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441 
\par }{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid7828778\charrsid7484301 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs18\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
Saying "life could never have originated by chemical means" is the equivalent of saying that }{\b\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 "life could never have originated by itself"}{
\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 . Recognition of the truth of this statement results in the realization that life is created in a conscious way. For ideological reasons, evolutionists, however, do not accept t
his fact, clear evidence of which is before their eyes. To avoid accepting the existence of God, they believe in nonsensical scenarios, the impossibility of which they are also convinced of. 
\par In his book }{\i\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 Evolution: A Theory in Crisis,}{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301  about the invalidity 
of the theory of evolution, renowned molecular biologist Prof. Michael Denton explains the unreasonable conviction of Darwinists: 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\qj \li283\ri0\sb43\sa43\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin283\itap0 \f8\fs18\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
To the skeptic, the proposition that the genetic programmes of higher organisms, consisting of something close to a thousand million bits of information, }{\b\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
equivalent to the sequence of letters in a small library of one thousand volumes}{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
, containing in encoded form countless thousands of intricate algorithms controlling, specifying, and ordering the growth and }{\b\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 development of billio
ns and billions of cells into the form of a complex organism, were composed by a purely random process is simply AN AFFRONT TO REASON. BUT TO THE DARWINIST, THE IDEA IS ACCEPTED WITHOUT A RIPPLE OF DOUBT - THE PARADIGM TAKES PRECEDENCE!}{
\f0\fs22\up4\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 7}{\f0\fs22\up4\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441 
\par }{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid7828778\charrsid7484301 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs18\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 Indeed, Darwinism
 is nothing but a totally unreasonable, superstitious belief. Anyone with any reason would see the evidence for that great fact by looking at DNA, or any other part of the universe. Human beings and all living things are created by God, the All-Mighty, Wh
o is the Lord of all the worlds. }{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441 
\par }{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid7828778\charrsid7484301 
\par }\pard\plain \s18\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\sb360\sa120\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid7828778 \b\f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {
\f0\fs28\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 "The RNA World" 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs18\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
The discovery in the 70s that the gasses originally existing in the primitive world atmosphere rendered amino acid synthesis impossible was a big blow to the molecular evolutionary theory. It then was unde
rstood that "primitive atmosphere experiments" of evolutionists such as Miller, Fox and Ponnamperuma were invalid. For this reason, in the 80s new evolutionist attempts were put forth. As a result, the scenario of the "RNA World" was advanced, which propo
sed that it was not the proteins that were formed first, but RNA molecules that contained the information for the proteins. 
\par According to this scenario advanced by Walter Gilbert, a chemist from Harvard in 1986, billions of years ago an RNA molecule that so
mehow managed to self-replicate, formed by coincidence. Then this RNA molecule started to produce proteins being activated by external effects. Thereafter, it became necessary to store this information in a second molecule, and somehow the DNA molecule em
erged. 
\par Being made up of a chain of impossibilities in each and every stage, this hardly imaginable scenario only magnified the problem and brought up many inextricable questions rather than providing any explanation for the origin of life:
\par 1. When it is im
possible to explain the coincidental formation of even one of the nucleotides making up RNA, how can it be possible for these imaginary nucleotides to form RNA by coming together in a proper sequence? Evolutionist biologist John Horgan admits the impossib
ility of the chance formation of RNA as follows;
\par }\pard\plain \s20\qj \li283\ri0\sb43\sa43\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin283\itap0 \f8\fs18\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\b\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
As researchers continue to examine the RNA-world concept closely, more problems emerge.}{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
 How did RNA arise initially? RNA and its components are difficult to synthesize in a laboratory under the best of conditions, much less under plausible ones.}{\f0\fs22\up4\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 8}{
\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs18\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
2. Even if we suppose that it formed by chance, how could this RNA made up of simply a nucleotid
e chain have "decided" to self-replicate and with what kind of a mechanism could it have carried out this self-replicating process? Where did it find the nucleotides it used while self-replicating? Even evolutionist microbiologists Gerald Joyce and Leslie
 Orgel express the desperateness of the situation in their book titled }{\b\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 "In the RNA World"}{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 :}{
\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441 
\par }{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid7828778\charrsid7484301 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\qj \li283\ri0\sb43\sa43\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin283\itap0 \f8\fs18\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
This discussion... has, in a sense, focused on a straw }{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid7828778\charrsid7484301 man: the}{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
 myth of a self-replicating RNA molecule that arose de novo from a soup of random polynucleotides. Not only is such a notion unrealistic in light of our current understanding of prebiotic chemistry, but it should strain the credulity of even an optimist's
 view of RNA's catalytic potential.}{\f0\fs22\up4\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 9}{\f0\fs22\up4\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441 
\par }{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid7828778\charrsid7484301 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs18\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
3. Even if we suppose that there was a self-replicating RNA in the primordial world, that numerous amino acids of every type ready to be used by RNA were available and that all of these impossibilities somehow took plac
e, the situation still does not lead to the formation of even a single protein. For RNA only includes information concerning the structure of proteins. Amino acids, on the other hand, are raw materials. Nevertheless, no mechanism exists to produce protein
s
. To consider the existence of RNA sufficient for protein production is as nonsensical as expecting a car to be self-assembled and self-manufactured by simply throwing its design drawn on paper on thousands of its parts piled upon each other. In this case
, too, production is out of the question since no factory or workers are involved in the process. 
\par A protein is produced in the ribosome factory with the help of many enzymes and as a result of extremely complex processes within the cell. Ribosome is a comp
lex cell organelle made up of proteins. Therefore, this situation also brings up another unreasonable supposition that ribosome, too, should have come into existence by chance at the same time. Even Nobel prize winner Jacques Monod, who is one of the most
 fanatical defenders of evolution, explains that protein synthesis can by no means be underestimated so as to depend merely on the information in the nucleic acids:}{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441 
\par }{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid7828778\charrsid7484301 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\qj \li283\ri0\sb43\sa43\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin283\itap0 \f8\fs18\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
The code is meaningless unless translated. The modern cell's translating machinery consists of at least fifty macromolecular components which are themselves coded in DNA: }{\b\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
the code cannot be translated otherwise than by products of translation}{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 . It is the modern expression of omne vivum ex ovo. When and how did this circle become closed? }{
\b\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 It is exceedingly difficult to imagine.}{\f0\fs22\up4\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 10}{\f0\fs22\up4\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441 

\par }{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid7828778\charrsid7484301 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs18\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
How could an RNA chain in the primordial world take such a decision and what methods could it have employed to realize protein production by undertaking the job of fifty specialized particles only on its own? Evolutionists
 have no answer to these questions. 
\par Dr. Leslie Orgel, one of the associates of Stanley Miller and Francis Crick from the University of San Diego California, uses the term "scenario" for the possibility of "the origination of life through the RNA world". O
rgel described what kind of features this RNA had to have and how impossible this was in her article titled }{\i\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 "The Origin of Life"}{
\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301  published in }{\i\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 American Scientist}{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
 in October 1994:}{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441 
\par }{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid7828778\charrsid7484301 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\qj \li283\ri0\sb43\sa43\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin283\itap0 \f8\fs18\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 This}{
\b\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301  scenario }{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 could have occured, we noted, if prebiotic RNA had two properties }{
\b\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 not evident today}{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 : A capacity }{\b\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
to replicate without the help of proteins }{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 and an ability }{\b\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 to catalyze every step of protein synthesis.}{
\f0\fs22\up4\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 11}{\f0\fs22\up4\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441 
\par }{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid7828778\charrsid7484301 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs18\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
As should be clear, to expect these two complex and extremely essential processes from a molecule like RNA is only pos
sible by an evolutionist's power of imagination and viewpoint. Concrete scientific facts, on the other hand, make it explicit that the thesis of the "RNA World", which is a new model proposed for the chance formation of life, is an equally implausible fab
le.
\par 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \qj \li0\ri0\sl-220\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \shading1000\cbpat8 \f8\fs24\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\qj \li0\ri0\sl-220\slmult0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \shading1000\cbpat8 \b\f8\fs28\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
CONFESSIONS FROM EVOLUTIONISTS
\par }\pard\plain \qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \shading1000\cbpat8 \f8\fs24\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
\par }\pard\plain \s22\qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \shading1000\cbpat8 \f8\fs16\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\expnd5\expndtw25\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 P}{
\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 robabilistic calculations make it clear that co
mplex molecules such as proteins and nucleic acids (RNA and DNA) could not ever have been formed by chance independently of each other. Yet evolutionists have to face the even greater problem that all these complex molecules have to coexist simultaneously
 
in order for life to exist at all. Evolutionary theory is utterly confounded by this requirement. This is a point on which some leading evolutionists have been forced to confession. For instance, Stanley Miller's and Francis Crick's close associate from t
he University of San Diego California, reputable evolutionist Dr. Leslie Orgel says:
\par }\pard \s22\qj \li0\ri0\sl-260\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \shading1000\cbpat8 {\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
It is extremely improbable that proteins and nucleic acids, both of which are structurally complex, arose spontaneously in the same place at the same time.
 Yet it also seems impossible to have one without the other. And so, at first glance, one might have to conclude that life could never, in fact, have originated by chemical means.}{
\f0\fs22\up4\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 1}{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301  
\par The same fact is also admitted by other scientists:
\par DNA}{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid7828778  }{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 cannot do its work
, including forming more DNA, without the help of catalytic proteins, or enzymes. In short, proteins cannot form without DNA, but neither can DNA}{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid7828778  }{
\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 form without proteins.}{\f0\fs22\up4\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 2}{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
\par How did the Genetic Code, along with the mechanisms for its translation (ribosomes and RNA}{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid7828778  }{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
molecules), originate? For the moment, we will have to content ourselves with a sense of wonder and awe, rather than with an answer.}{\f0\fs22\up4\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 3}{
\f0\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
\par }\pard\plain \s21\qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \shading1000\cbpat8 \b\f38\fs16\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\b0\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
\par }{\b0\f0\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 1 Leslie E. Orgel, "The Origin of Life on Earth", }{\b0\i\f0\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 Scientific American}{
\b0\f0\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 , vol. 271, October 1994, p. 78
\par }\pard \s21\qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \shading1000\cbpat8 {\b0\f0\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 2 John Horgan, "In the Beginning", }{
\b0\i\f0\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7828778 Scientific American}{\b0\f0\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 , vol. 264, February 1991, p. 119
\par }\pard \s21\qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \shading1000\cbpat8 {\b0\f0\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 3 Douglas R. Hofstadter, G\'f6del, Escher, }{
\b0\i\f0\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7828778 Bach: An Eternal Golden Braid}{\b0\f0\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 , New York, Vintage Books, 1980, p. 548
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs18\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441 
\par }{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid7828778\charrsid7484301 
\par }\pard\plain \s18\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\sb360\sa120\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid7828778 \b\f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {
\f0\fs28\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 Life is a Concept Beyond Mere Heaps of Molecules
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs18\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 Let us f
orget all the impossibilities for a moment and suppose that a protein molecule was formed in the most inappropriate, most uncontrolled environment such as the primordial earth conditions. The formation of only one protein would not be sufficient; this pro
t
ein would have to wait patiently for thousands, maybe millions of years in this uncontrolled environment without sustaining any damage, until another molecule was formed beside it by chance under the same conditions. It would have to wait until millions o
f
 correct and essential proteins were formed side by side in the same setting all "by chance". Those that formed earlier had to be patient enough to wait, without being destroyed despite ultraviolet rays and harsh mechanical effects, for the others to be f
o
rmed right next to them. Then these proteins in adequate number, which all originated at the very same spot, would have to come together by making meaningful combinations and form the organelles of the cell. No extraneous material, harmful molecule, or us
e
less protein chain may interfere with them. Then, even if these organelles were to come together in an extremely harmonious and co-operative way within a plan and order, they must take all the necessary enzymes beside themselves and become covered with a 
membrane, the inside of which must be filled with a special liquid to prepare the ideal environment for them. Now even if all these "highly unlikely" events actually occurred by chance, would this molecular heap come to life?
\par The answer is No, because research has revealed that }{\b\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 the mere combination of all the materials essential for life is not enough for life to get started.}{
\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301  Even if all the essential proteins for life were collected and put in a test tube, these efforts would not result with producing a liv
ing cell. All the experiments conducted on this subject have proved to be unsuccessful. All observations and experiments indicate that life can only originate from life. The assertion that life evolved from non-living things, in other words, "abiogenesis"
, is a tale only existing in the dreams of the evolutionists and completely at variance with the results of every experiment and observation. 
\par In this respect, the first life on earth must also have originated from other life. This is a reflection of God's 
epithet of "Hayy" (The Alive, The Ever Living). Life can only start, continue, and end by His will. As for evolution, not only is it unable to explain how life began, it is also unable to explain how the materials essential for life have formed and come t
ogether. 
\par Chandra Wickramasinghe describes the reality he faced as a scientist who had been told throughout his life that life had emerged as a result of chance coincidences:}{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441 
\par }{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid7828778\charrsid7484301 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\qj \li283\ri0\sb43\sa43\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin283\itap0 \f8\fs18\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
From my earliest training as a scientist, I was very strongly brainwashed to beli
eve that science cannot be consistent with any kind of deliberate creation. That notion has had to be painfully shed. At the moment, I can't find any rational argument to knock down the view which argues for conversion to God. We used to have an open mind
; now }{\b\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 we realize that the only logical answer to life is creation}{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 -and not accidental random shuffling.}{
\f0\fs22\up4\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 12
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s22\qc \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \shading1000\cbpat8 \f8\fs16\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs28\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
THE SECOND LAW OF THERMODYNAMICS
\par }\pard \s22\qc \li0\ri0\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \shading1000\cbpat8 {\f0\fs28\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 INVALIDATES THE THEORY OF EVOLUTION}{
\f0\fs28\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441 
\par }{\f0\fs28\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid7828778\charrsid7484301 
\par }\pard \s22\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-260\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \shading1000\cbpat8 {\f0\fs22\expnd2\expndtw10\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 T}{
\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 he Second Law of Thermodynamics, which is accepted as one of the basic law
s of physics, holds that under normal conditions all systems left on their own will tend to become disordered, dispersed, and corrupted in direct relation to the amount of time that passes. Everything living or non-living wears out, deteriorates, decays, 
disintegrates, and is destroyed. This is the absolute end that all beings will face one way or another and according to this law, this unavoidable process has no return. 
\par This is something that all of us have observed. For example if you take a car to a des
ert and leave it there, you would hardly expect to find it in a better condition when you came back years later. On the contrary, you would see that its tyres had gone flat, its windows had been broken, its chassis had rusted, and its motor had decayed. T
he same inevitable process holds true and even more quickly for living things.
\par The Second Law of Thermodynamics is the means by which this natural process is defined with physical equations and calculations. 
\par This famous law of physics is also known as "the
 Law of Entropy". Entropy is the range of the disorder involved in a system in physics. A system's entropy is increased as it moves towards a more disordered, dispersed, and unplanned state from an ordered, organised, and planned one. The higher a system'
s disorder, the higher is its entropy. The Law of Entropy holds that the entire universe unavoidably proceeds towards a more disordered, unplanned, and disorganised state. 
\par The validity of the Second Law of Thermodynamics, or the Law of Entropy, is experime
ntally and theoretically established. The most important scientists of our age agree on the fact that The Entropy Law will preside as the ruling paradigm over the next period of history. Albert Einstein, the greatest scientist of our age, said that it is 
the "}{\b\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 premier law of all of science}{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 ". Sir Arthur Eddington also referred to it as the "}{
\b\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 supreme metaphysical law of the entire universe"}{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 .}{
\f0\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 1}{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301  
\par Evolutionary theory is an assertion that is advanced by totally ignoring this basic and universally true law of physics
. The mechanism offered by evolution totally contradicts this law. The theory of evolution says that disordered, dispersed, and inorganic atoms and molecules spontaneously came together in time in a certain order and plan to form extremely complex molecul
e
s such as proteins, DNA, and RNA after which they gradually brought about millions of different living species with even more complex structures. According to the evolutionary theory, this supposed process that yields a more planned, more ordered, more co
mplex and more organised structure at each stage has formed all by itself under natural conditions. The Law of Entropy makes it clear that this so-called natural process utterly contradicts the laws of physics.
\par Evolutionist scientists are also aware of this fact. J.H. Rush states: 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\qj \fi-284\li284\ri0\sl-260\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin284\itap0\pararsid4155015 \shading1000\cbpat8 \b\f8\fs18\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid4155015 
     }{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 In the complex course of its evolution, life exhibits a remarkable contrast to the tendency expressed in the Second Law of Thermodynamics}{
\b0\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 . Where the Second Law expresses an irreversible progression toward increased entropy and disorder, life evolves continually higher levels of order.}{
\b0\f0\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 2}{\b0\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
\par }\pard\plain \s22\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-260\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \shading1000\cbpat8 \f8\fs16\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
The evolutionist scientist Roger Lewin expresses the thermodynamic impasse of evolution in an article in Science: 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\qj \fi-426\li426\ri0\sl-260\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin426\itap0\pararsid4155015 \shading1000\cbpat8 \b\f8\fs18\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {
\b0\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid4155015       }{\b0\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 One }{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 problem}{
\b0\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301  biologists have faced is the }{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 apparent contradiction}{
\b0\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301  by evolution of the second law of }{\b0\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441        }{\b0\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
thermodynamics. Systems should decay through time, }{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 giving less, not more, order}{\b0\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 .}{
\b0\f0\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 3}{\b0\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
\par }\pard\plain \s22\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-260\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \shading1000\cbpat8 \f8\fs16\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
Another evolutionist scientist, George Stravropoulos states the thermodynamic impossibility of the spontaneous formation of life and the un
feasibility of explaining the existence of complex living mechanisms by natural laws in the well-known evolutionist magazine }{\i\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid4024387 American Scientist:}{
\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\qj \li0\ri0\sl-260\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid4155015 \shading1000\cbpat8 \b\f8\fs18\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {
\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 Yet, under ordinary conditions, no complex organic molecule can ever form spontaneously but will rather disintegrate, in agreement with the second law}{
\b0\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
. Indeed, the more complex it is, the more unstable it is, and the more assured, sooner or later, is its disintegration. Photosynthesis and all life processes, and life itself, despite confused or deliberately confusing language, cannot yet be understood 
}{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 in terms of thermodynamics or any other exact science}{\b0\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 .}{
\b0\f0\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 4}{\b0\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301  
\par }\pard\plain \s22\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-260\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \shading1000\cbpat8 \f8\fs16\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
As acknowledged, the Second Law of Thermodynamics constitutes an insurmountable obstacle for the scenario of evolution in terms of both science and logic. Unable
 to put forth any scientific and consistent explanation to overcome this obstacle, evolutionists can only defeat it in their imagination. For instance, the famous evolutionist Jeremy Rifkin notes his belief that evolution overwhelms this law of physics wi
th a "}{\b\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 magical power}{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 ":}{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441 
\par }{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\qj \fi-284\li284\ri0\sl-260\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin284\itap0\pararsid1986441 \shading1000\cbpat8 \b\f8\fs18\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441 
    }{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 The Entropy Law}{\b0\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301  says that evolution dissipates the overall available energy for life on this planet. }
{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 Our }{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441      }{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 concept of evolution is the exact opposite}{
\b0\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 . We }{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 believe}{\b0\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
 that evolution somehow }{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 magically}{\b0\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301  creates greater overall value and order on earth.}{
\b0\f0\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 5}{\b0\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301  }{\b0\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441 
\par }{\b0\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
\par }\pard \s19\qj \li0\ri0\sl-260\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid1986441 \shading1000\cbpat8 {\b0\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
These words very well indicate that evolution is totally a dogmatic belief.
\par }\pard\plain \s22\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-260\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \shading1000\cbpat8 \f8\fs16\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {
\b\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
\par }\pard \s22\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-260\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid1986441 \shading1000\cbpat8 {\b\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
The Law of Thermodynamics holds that natural conditions always lead to disorder. Evolutionary theory, on the other hand, is an unscientific theory that utterly contradicts with this law.}{
\b\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid1986441 
\par }\pard \s22\qc \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-260\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \shading1000\cbpat8 {\b\f0\fs28\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441 
\par 
\par }{\b\f0\fs28\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 THE MYTH OF THE "OPEN SYSTEM"
\par }{\f0\fs28\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
\par }\pard \s22\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-260\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \shading1000\cbpat8 {\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 Confronted by all these truths, evolutionists
 have had to take refuge in a mangling of the Second Law of Thermodynamics, saying that it holds true only for "closed systems" and that "open systems" are beyond the scope of this law.
\par An "open system" is a thermodynamic system in which energy matter flow
 in and out, unlike a "closed system", in which the initial energy and matter remains constant. Evolutionists hold that the world is an open system: that it is constantly exposed to an energy flow from the sun, that the law of entropy does not apply for t
he world as a whole, and that ordered, complex living beings can be generated from disordered, simple, and inanimate structures. 
\par However, there is an obvious distortion here. }{\b\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 The fact that a system has an energy inflow is not enough to make that system ord
ered. Specific mechanisms are needed to make the energy functional.}{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
 For instance, a car needs a motor, a transmission system, and related control mechanisms to convert the energy in gasoline to work. Without such an energy conversion system, the car will not be able to use the energy in gasoline.
\par The same thing applies in the case of life as well. It is true that life derives its energy from the sun. However, solar energy can only be converted into chemical ener
gy by the incredibly complex energy conversion systems in living things (such as photosynthesis in plants and the digestive systems of humans and animals). No living thing can live without such energy conversion systems. Without an energy conversion syste
m, the sun is nothing but a source of destructive energy that burns, parches, or melts. 
\par As may be seen, a thermodynamic system without an energy conversion mechanism of some sort is not advantageous for evolution, be it open or closed. No one asserts that 
such complex and conscious mechanisms could have existed in nature under the conditions of the primeval earth. Indeed, the real problem confronting evolutionists is the question of how complex energy converting mechanisms such as photosynthesis in plants,
 which cannot be duplicated even with modern technology, could have come into being on its own. 
\par }\pard \s22\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-260\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid4155015 \shading1000\cbpat8 {\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
The influx of solar energy into the world has no effect that would on its own bring order. No matter how high the temperature may become, amino acids resist for
ming bonds in ordered sequences. Energy by itself is not enough to make amino acids form the much more complex molecules of proteins or for proteins to form the much complex and organised structures of cell organelles. The real and essential source of thi
s organization at all levels is conscious design: in a word, creation.}{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441 
\par }{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid4155015 
\par }\pard \s22\qc \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-260\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \shading1000\cbpat8 {\b\f0\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441 
\par }{\b\f0\fs28\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 THE "CHAOS THEORY" EVASION
\par 
\par }\pard \s22\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-260\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \shading1000\cbpat8 {\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
Quite aware that the Second Law of Thermodynamics renders evolution impossible, some evolutionist scientists have made speculative attempts to close the gap
 between the two so as to render evolution possible. As usual, even those endeavours show that the theory of evolution faces an inescapable impasse.
\par One person distinguished by his efforts to marry thermodynamics and evolution is the Belgian scientist Ilya Prigogine. 
\par }{\f0\fs22\expnd-1\expndtw-5\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 Starting out from the }{\b\f0\fs22\expnd-1\expndtw-5\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 Chaos Theory}{
\f0\fs22\expnd-1\expndtw-5\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
, Prigogine proposed a number of hypotheses in which order forms from chaos (disorder). Despite his best efforts however, Prigogine has been unable to pull off the wedding. This is clearly seen in what he says:}{
\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\qj \fi-284\li284\ri0\sl-260\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin284\itap0\pararsid1986441 \shading1000\cbpat8 \b\f8\fs18\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {
\b0\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441      }{\b0\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
There is another question, which has plagued us for more than a century: What significance does the evolution of a living being have in the world described by thermodynamics, a world of ever-increasing disorder?}{
\b0\f0\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 6}{\b0\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
\par }\pard\plain \s22\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-260\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \shading1000\cbpat8 \f8\fs16\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
Prigogine, who knows quite well that theories at the molecular level are not applicable to living systems, such as a living cell, stresses this problem:}{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441 
\par }{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\qj \fi-284\li284\ri0\sl-260\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin284\itap0\pararsid1986441 \shading1000\cbpat8 \b\f8\fs18\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {
\b0\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441     }{\b0\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 The problem of biological order involves the transition from the molecular activity to the }{
\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 supermolecular }{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441    }{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 order of the cell}{
\b0\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 . This problem }{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 is far from being solved}{
\b0\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 .}{\b0\f0\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 7}{\b0\f0\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441 
\par }{\b0\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
\par }\pard\plain \s22\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-260\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \shading1000\cbpat8 \f8\fs16\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
This is the point most recently arrived at by Chaos Theory and related speculations. }{\b\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
No concrete outcome has been attained that would support or verify evolution or eliminate the contradiction between evolution, entropy, and other physical laws.}{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
\par }\pard \s22\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-260\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid1986441 \shading1000\cbpat8 {\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
Despite all these evident facts, evolutionists try to take refuge in simple subterfuges. Plain scientific truths show that living things and the ordered, planned, and complex structures of living
 things could in no way have come into being by coincidence under normal circumstances. This situation makes it clear that the existence of living beings can only be explained by the intervention of a supernatural power. That supernatural power is the cre
ation of God, who created the entire universe from nothing. Science has proven that evolution is still impossible as far as thermodynamics is concerned and the existence of life has no explanation but Creation.}{
\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid1986441 
\par }\pard \s22\qj \li0\ri0\sl-200\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \shading1000\cbpat8 {\f0\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 1 Jeremy Rifkin, }{
\i\f0\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 Entropy: A New World View}{\f0\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 , New York, Viking Press, 1980, p.6
\par }\pard \s22\qj \li0\ri0\sl-200\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \shading1000\cbpat8 {\f0\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 2 J. H.Rush, }{\i\f0\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
The Dawn of Life}{\f0\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 , New York, Signet, 1962, p 35
\par 3 Roger Lewin, "A Downward Slope to Greater Diversity", Science, vol. 217, 24.9.1982, p. 1239
\par 4 George P. Stravropoulos, "The Frontiers and Limits of Science", }{\i\f0\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 American Scientist}{\f0\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
, vol. 65, November-December 1977, p.674
\par 5 Jeremy Rifkin, Entropy: }{\i\f0\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 A New World View}{\f0\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 , p.55
\par 6 Ilya Prigogine, Isabelle Stengers, }{\i\f0\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 Order Out of Chaos}{\f0\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 , New York, Bantam Books, 1984, p. 129
\par }\pard \s22\qj \li0\ri0\sl-200\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid1986441 \shading1000\cbpat8 {\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 7 Ilya Prigogine, Isabelle Stengers,}{
\i\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301  Order Out of Chaos}{\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 , p. 175}{\f0\fs24\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid1986441 
\par }\pard\plain \s17\qc \li0\ri0\sb120\sa120\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs32\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
THE THEORY OF INFORMATION
\par }\pard \s17\qc \li0\ri0\sa120\sl600\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid1986441 {\f0\fs32\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 AND THE END OF MATERIALISM
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs18\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\expnd4\expndtw20\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 T}{
\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 he }{\b\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 materialist philosophy}{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
 lies at the basis of the theory of evolution. Materialism rests on the supposition that everything that exists is matter. According to this philosophy, matter has exi
sted since eternity, will continue to exist forever, and there is nothing but matter. In order to provide support for their claim, materialists use a logic called "reductionism". Reductionism is the idea that things which are not observable like matter ca
n also be explained by material causes. 
\par To explain this, let us give the example of human mind. As evident, human mind is not something "touched by the hand, and seen with the eye". Moreover, there is no "center of mind" in the human brain. This situation,
 unavoidably leads us to the conclusion that mind is a concept beyond matter. Therefore, the being we call "I", who thinks, loves, gets nervous, worries, takes pleasure or feels pain is not a material being such as a sofa, a table or a stone. 
\par Materialists
, however, claim that mind is "reductional to matter". According to the materialist claim, our thinking, loving, worrying and all our mental activities are nothing but some chemical reactions taking place between the atoms in our brain. Our loving someone
 is a chemical reaction in some cells in our brain, and our feeling fear because of a certain event is another chemical reaction. Famous materialist philosopher }{\b\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 Karl Vogt}{
\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301  stressed this logic with his famous words }{\b\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 "Just as liver secretes gall, so do our brains secrete thought"}{
\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 . Gall, however, is matter, whereas there is no evidence that thought is matter. 
\par Reductionism is a logical deduction. However, a logical deduction can be based on sound grounds as well as shaky grounds. For this reason, the question that stands forth for us for the time being is this: }{
\b\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 What would be the result if reductionism}{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 , the basic logic of materialism, }{
\b\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 is compared to scientific data?
\par }{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 The 19}{\f0\fs22\up4\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 th}{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
 century materialist scientists and thinkers thought that this question could be easily answered away as "science verifies reductionism". 20}{\f0\fs22\up4\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 th}{
\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301  century science, however, revealed a very different fact. 
\par This fact is "information", which is present in nature and can never be reduced to matter. }{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441 
\par }{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
\par }\pard\plain \s18\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\sb360\sa120\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid1986441 \b\f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {
\f0\fs28\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 Difference between Matter and Information
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs18\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
We have earlier mentioned that there is an incredibly comprehensive information in the DNAs of living beings. In a place as small as one hundred thousandth of a millimeter, there is some sort of a "data bank" that specifies all the physical details of the
 
body of a living being. Moreover, there exists a system in the body of a living being that reads this information, interprets it and makes "production" according to it. In all living cells, the information in DNA is "read" by various enzymes and protein i
s
 produced according to this information. The production of millions of proteins every second in the required type for the required place in our body becomes possible with this system. Owing to this system, our dying eye cells are replaced again by eye cel
ls, and our blood cells again by blood cells. 
\par At this point, let us think of the claim of materialism: Could it be possible that the information in DNA be reduced to matter as materialists say? Or, in other words, can it be accepted that DNA is merely a he
ap of matter and the information it contains came about as the random interactions of matter?
\par All the scientific research, experiments and observations carried out in the 20}{\f0\fs22\up4\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 th}{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
 century show that this question must definitely be answered as "no". The director of the German Federal Physics and Technology Institute, Prof. Dr. Werner Gitt has the following to say on the issue:}{
\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441 
\par }{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\qj \li283\ri0\sb43\sa43\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin283\itap0 \f8\fs18\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
A coding system always entails a nonmaterial intellectual process. A physical matter cannot produce an information code. All experiences
 show that every piece of creative information represents some mental effort and can be traced to a personal idea-giver who exercised his own free will, and who is endowed with an intelligent mind.... }{
\b\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 There is no known law of nature, no known process and no known sequence of events which can cause information to originate by itself in matter...}{
\f0\fs22\up4\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 13}{\f0\fs22\up4\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441 
\par }{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs18\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
The words of Werner Gitt are the conclusions of }{\b\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 "The Information Theory"}{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
, which developed in the last 20-30 years and which is accepted as a part of thermodynamic
s. The Information Theory investigates the origin and nature of the information in the universe. The conclusion reached by the information theoreticians as a result of their long research is that "Information is something different from matter. It can nev
er be reduced to matter. The origin of information and physical matter must be investigated separately."
\par For instance, let us think of the source of a book. A book is made up of paper, ink, and the information it contains. Paper and ink are material element
s. Their source is again matter: Paper is made of cellulose, and ink is made of certain chemicals. However, the information in the book is nonmaterial and it cannot have a material source. The source of the information in each book, is the mind of the wri
ter who wrote that book. 
\par Moreover, this mind determines how paper and ink will be used. A book initially forms in the mind of the writer who writes that book. The writer builds a chain of logic in his mind, and lines up the sentences. As a second step, he 
puts them into a material form, which is to mean that he pours the information in his mind into letters by using a type-writer or a computer. Later, these letters are printed in a printing-house and take the shape of a book made up of paper and ink. 

\par There
upon we can end up with the following general conclusion: "If a physical matter contains information, then that matter ought to have been designed by a mind that possesses the information in question. First there is the mind. That mind pours the informati
on in it into matter and then there is the design."}{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441 
\par }{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
\par }\pard\plain \s18\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\sb360\sa120\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid1986441 \b\f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {
\f0\fs28\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 The Origin of the Information in Nature
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs18\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
When we adapt this conclusion reached by science to nature, we meet a very important result. This is because nature, as in the example of DNA, overflows with an imm
ense body of information and since this information cannot be reduced to matter, it therefore comes from a source beyond matter. 
\par One of the foremost advocates of the theory of evolution, George C. Williams admits this reality, which most materialists and 
evolutionists are reluctant to see. Williams has strictly defended materialism for years, but in an article he wrote in 1995, he states the incorrectness of the materialist (reductionist) approach which holds everything to be matter:}{
\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441 
\par }{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\qj \li283\ri0\sb43\sa43\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin283\itap0 \f8\fs18\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
Evolutionary biologis
ts have failed to realize that they work with two more or less incommensurable domains: that of information and that of matter. These two domains can never be brought together in any kind of the sense usually implied by the term "reductionism.". The gene 
is a package of information, not an object... In biology, when you're talking about things like genes and genotypes and gene pools, you're talking about information, not physical objective reality... }{
\b\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 This dearth of shared descriptors makes matter and information two separate domains of existence, which have to be discussed separately, in their own terms.}{
\f0\fs22\up4\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 14}{\f0\fs22\up4\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441 
\par }{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs18\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
Therefore, contrary to the supposition of materialists, the source of the information in nature cannot be matter itself. The source of information is not
 matter but a superior Wisdom beyond matter. This Wisdom exists prior to matter. Matter has come to exist with Him, molded into a shape and became organized with Him. The owner of this Wisdom is God, the Lord of all the worlds. 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\qc \li0\ri0\sa240\sl480\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid1986441 \b\f8\fs22\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
\page }{\f0\fs32\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 THE APE-MAN SIMILARITY IS A TALE!
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qc \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs18\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\i\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
The completion of the human's gene map today does not yield the result that man and ape are relatives. One need not be deceived by evolutionists' attempts to exploit this new scientific development just as they have done with all others.}{
\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
\par 
\par }\pard \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 As known, the recent completion of the human gene map within the scope of the }{
\b\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 Human Genome Project}{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
 was a very important scientific advance. However, some results of this project are being distorted in some evolutionist publications. It is claimed that }{\b\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 the 
chimpanzee genes bear a 98% similarity to human genes}{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
 and this is promoted as an evidence for the claim that apes are related to humans, and therefore, to the theory of evolution. In truth, this is a "fake" evidence put forward by evolutionists who take ad
vantage of the lack of knowledge about this subject in society. }{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441 
\par }{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
\par }\pard\plain \s18\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\sb360\sa120\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid1986441 \b\f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {
\f0\fs28\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 98 % Similarity Claim is a Misleading Propaganda; 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs18\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
First, it should be stated that the concept of }{\b\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 98% similarity between human and chimpanzee DNA}{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
 frequently advanced by evolutionists }{\b\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 is deceptive.
\par }{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
In order to claim that the genetic make-up of man and chimpanzee bear a 98% similarity, the genome of the chimpanzee also has to be mapped, just like that of man, the two have to be compared, and the result of this comparison has to be obtain
ed. However no such result is available, because so far, only the human gene has been mapped. No such research has yet been done on the chimpanzee. 
\par In reality, the 98 % similarity between human and chimpanzee genes, which now and then enters the agenda, i
s a propaganda-oriented slogan deliberately invented years ago. This similarity is an extraordinarily exaggerated generalisation grounded on the similarity in the amino acid sequences of some }{
\b\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 30-40 basic proteins }{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 present in man and the chimpanzee. A sequen
ce analysis has been made with a method named "DNA hybridization" on the DNA sequences that are correlated with these proteins and only those limited number of proteins have been compared. 
\par However there are about one hundred thousand genes, and therefore one hundred thousand proteins encoded by these genes in humans. For that reason, there is no scientific basis for claiming }{
\b\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 that all the genes of man and ape are 98% similar just because of the similarity in 40 out of 100,000 proteins.}{
\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301  
\par On the other hand, the DNA comparison carried out on these 40 proteins is also controversial. This comparison was made in 1987 by two biologists named Sibley and Ahlquist and published in the periodical named }{
\i\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 Journal of Molecular Evolution}{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 .}{\f0\fs22\up4\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
15}{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301  However another scientist named Sarich who examined the data obtained by these two scientists concluded that }{
\b\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 the reliability of the method they used is controversial and that the data has been exaggeratedly interpreted.}{
\f0\fs22\up4\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 16}{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301  Dr. Don Batten, another biologist, also analysed the issue in 1996 
and concluded that the real similarity rate is 96.2%, not 98 %.}{\f0\fs22\up4\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 17}{\f0\fs22\up6\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301  }{
\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
\par }\pard\plain \s18\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\sb360\sa120\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs28\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441 
\par 
\par }\pard \s18\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\sb360\sa120\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid1986441 {\f0\fs28\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
Human DNA is also Similar to that of the Worm, Mosquito and Chicken!
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs18\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
Moreover, the above-mentioned basic proteins are common vital molecules present in various other living things. The st
ructure of the same kinds of proteins present not only in chimpanzee, but also in completely different living creatures, is very similar to that in humans. 
\par For example, the genetic analyses published in }{\i\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 New Scientist}{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301  have revealed a }{
\b\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 75 % similarity between the DNAs of nematode worms and man.}{\f0\fs22\up4\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 18}{
\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
 This definitely does not mean that there is only a 25% difference between man and these worms! According to the family tree made by evolutionists, the Chordata phylum, in which man is included, a
nd the Nematoda phylum were different from each other even 530 million years ago. 
\par On the other hand, in another finding which also appeared in the local media, it was stated that }{\b\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 the comparisons carried out between the genes of fruit flies belonging to th
e Drosophila species and human genes yielded a similarity of 60%.}{\f0\fs22\up4\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 19}{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301  
\par In another case, analyses done on some proteins show man as closely linked to some very different living things. In a survey carried out by researchers in Cambridge University, some prote
ins of land-dwelling animals were compared. Amazingly, in nearly all samples, human beings and chickens were paired as the closest relatives. The next closest relative was the crocodile.}{
\f0\fs22\up4\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 20}{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301  
\par Another example used by evolutionists on "the genetic similarity between man and ape", }{\b\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 is the presence of 48 chromosomes in chimpanzees and gorillas versus 46 chromosomes in man.}{
\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301  Evolutionists regard the closeness of the number of chromosomes as indication of an evolutionary relationship. However, if this logic used by e
volutionists were valid, then man would have an even closer relative than the chimpanzee: "the potato"!. }{\b\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
Because the number of chromosomes in potatoes is the same as that of man: 46
\par }{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 These examples confirm that the concept of genetic similarity does not con
stitute evidence for the theory of evolution. This is because the genetic similarities are not in line with the alleged evolutionary schemes, and on the contrary, yield completely opposite results. }{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441 

\par }{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
\par }\pard\plain \s18\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\sb360\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs28\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
Genetic Similarities Upset 
\par }\pard \s18\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\sa120\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid1986441 {\f0\fs28\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 the "Evolution Scheme" that is Sought to be Constituted;

\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs18\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
Unsurprisingly, when the issue is evaluated as a whole, it is seen that the subject of "bio-chemical similarities" does not constitute evidence for evolution, but rather leaves the theory in the lurch. Dr. Christian Schwabe, a 
biochemistry researcher from the Medical Faculty of South Carolina University, is an evolutionist scientist who has spent years searching for evidence for evolution in the molecular domain. In particular he carried out research on insulin and relaxin-type
 
proteins and tried to establish evolutionary relationships between living beings. However, he had to confess many times that he could not find any evidence for evolution at any point in his studies. In an article published in a scientific journal, he said
; }{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441 
\par }{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\qj \li283\ri0\sb43\sa43\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin283\itap0 \f8\fs18\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
Molecular evolution is about to be accepted as a method superior to palaeontology for the discovery of evolutionary relationships. As a molecular evolutionist I should be elated. }{\b\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
Instead it seems disconcerting that many exceptions exist to the orderly progression of species as determined by molecular homologies}{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
; so many in fact that I think the exception, the quirks, may carry the more important message.}{\f0\fs22\up4\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 21}{\f0\fs22\up4\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441 
\par }{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs18\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
Based on the recent findings obtained in the field of molecular biology, the renowned biochemist Prof. Michael Denton made the following comments;
\par }\pard\plain \s20\qj \li283\ri0\sb43\sa43\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin283\itap0 \f8\fs18\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
Each class at molecular level is unique, isolated and unlinked by intermediates. Thus, molecules, like fossils, have failed to provide the elusive intermediates so long sought by evolutionary biology\'85 }{
\b\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 At a molecular level, no organism is "ancestral" or "primitive" or "advanced" compared with its relatives\'85}{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
 There is little doubt that if this molecular evidence had been available a century ago\'85 the idea of organic evolution might never have been accepted.}{\f0\fs22\up4\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 22}{
\f0\fs22\up4\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441 
\par }\pard\plain \s18\qj \li0\ri0\sb360\sa120\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid1986441 \b\f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {
\f0\fs28\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 Similarities are not Evidence for Evolution but for Creation
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs18\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
It is surely natural for the human body to bear some molecular similarities to other living beings, 
because they all are made up of the same molecules, they all use the same water and atmosphere, and they all consume foods consisting of the same molecules. Certainly, their metabolisms and therefore genetic make-ups would resemble one another. This, howe
ver, is not evidence that they evolved from a common ancestor. 
\par This }{\b\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 "common material" is not the result of an evolution but of "common design", that is, their being created upon the same plan.}{
\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301  
\par It is possible to explain this matter with an example; all con
struction in the world is done with similar materials (brick, iron, cement, etc.). This, however, does not mean that these buildings "evolved" from each other. They are constructed separately by using common materials. The same holds for living beings as 
well. 
\par Life did not originate as the result of unconscious coincidences as evolution claims, but as the result of the creation of God, the Almighty, the possessor of infinite knowledge and wisdom. }{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441 
\par }{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
\par }\pard\plain \s18\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\sb360\sa120\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid1986441 \b\f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {
\f0\fs28\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 Conclusion
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs18\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
In addition to all the information we have detailed so far, we think it would be helpful to emphasize another fact. 
\par Other than the superficial similarity between them, apes are no closer to human beings than other animals. Moreover, when intelligence is used as a point of comparison, the bee, which pr
oduces the geometrical wonder of the honeycomb, or the spider, which produces the engineering wonder of the web, are closer to man than the ape. We can even say that they are superior in some aspects. 
\par Between man and ape, however, there is a tremendous ga
p, never to be closed by fairy stories. After all, an ape is an animal no different from a horse or a dog in terms of consciousness. Man, however, is a being who has consciousness and will, who can think, talk, reason, decide, and judge. All these qualiti
e
s are functions of the "spirit" he possesses. The most important difference that causes this huge gap between man and other living beings is this "spirit". No physical resemblance can close this gap between man and other living beings. The only being that
 has "spirit" in nature is man. 
\par In the Qur'an, this superior quality which man possesses and which differentiates him from other living things is referred to as follows: 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\qj \li0\ri0\sb43\sa43\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid1986441 \b\f8\fs18\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
Then He formed him and breathed His Spirit into him and gave you hearing, sight and hearts. What little thanks you show! (Surat as-Sajda: 9)
\par }\pard \s19\qj \li283\ri0\sb43\sa43\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin283\itap0 {\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 \page 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\qc \li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\f8\fs22\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs32\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 DARWINIST-MATERIALIST
\par }\pard \s16\qc \li0\ri0\sa240\sl480\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid1986441 {\f0\fs32\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 MISCONCEPTIONS ABOUT THE HUMAN GENOME PROJECT
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs18\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\expnd4\expndtw20\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 W}{
\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 ith the announcement of the latest point arrived at in the Human Genome Project, s
ome publishing organs started to deliver misleading messages and misinform the public so that the impasse the theory of evolution has reached is not further revealed. 
\par Earlier, we mentioned the misleading messages evolutionists gave about "genetic similari
ties" and made clear that these are the subjective interpretations which do not provide any evidence for the theory of evolution. The subject which is mostly promoted and highlighted with different slogans and headlines by the Darwinist-materialist press 
i
s the claim that the discovery of the gene map suggests that the fate decreed by God can be challenged. This is a great misconception and deception put forward by certain circles. The headlines recently appearing in the printed press and in the course of 
d
iscussions in television programs give the impression of a stealthy indoctrination. It is a great mistake to present the information on the human genome project accompanied by messages like "Man will no longer be defeated by his destiny." For in truth, th
e mapping of the human genes has no relevance whatsoever to the flow of man's fate. }{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441 
\par }{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
\par }\pard\plain \s18\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\sb360\sa120\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid1986441 \b\f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {
\f0\fs28\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 The Flow of Fate Cannot be Changed
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs18\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
Destiny is God's perfect knowledge of all events past or future as a single moment. A majority of people question how God can already kn
ow events that have not yet been experienced and this leads them to fail to understand the fact of destiny. However, "events not yet experienced" are only so for us. God is not bound by time or space, for He Himself created them. For this reason, past, fu
ture, and present are all the same to God; for Him everything has already taken place and finished. 
\par This is true for everyone and every event. For instance, God has created everyone with a certain lifetime and everyone's moment of death is determined as to
 its location, time and form in the sight of God. If, in the years to come, someone's lifetime is extended with timely interventions in the genes, this would not mean that this event defeated that person's destiny. It simply means the following: God gave 
t
his man a long life and He made the completion of gene mapping a means for his life being long. The discovery of the gene map, that person's living in that period and that person's life being extended by scientific means are all his destiny. All is determ
ined in the sight of God before this person is born into the world. 
\par Similarly, someone whose fatal sickness is cured through the discoveries made within the scope of this project has again not changed his destiny. That is because it is this person's destin
y to recover from this illness by means of this project. Consequently, completion of the human genome project and the fact that man will be able to intervene in the genetic makeup, do not mean confronting the destiny created by God. On the contrary, in th
i
s way, mankind follows the developments created for it by God, and explores and benefits from the information created by God. If man lives 120 years thanks to these scientific developments, this is surely a lifetime decreed for him by God that is why he l
ives so long. 
\par In brief, expressions like "I cheated my fate", "I changed my destiny" or "I intervened in my destiny" are the consequence of ignorance caused by not knowing the facts about fate. On the other hand, a person's using these expressions is also 
predestined; how, when and under which conditions he will make these statements are all determined in the sight of God. 
\par }\pard\plain \s18\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\sb360\sa120\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid1986441 \b\f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {
\f0\fs28\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 Cloning a Human Being or any other Living being is not Creating
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs18\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
In some publications, it has been alleged that by the advancement of th
e science of genetics, human beings would be cloned and therefore, human beings would create human beings. This, too, is a very distorted and farfetched logic. Creating means to bring something into being from nothingness, and this act is peculiar to God 
a
lone. The formation of the identical copy of a living being through the copying of genetic information does not mean that this living being is created. When man or any other living being is cloned, the cells of a living being are taken and copied. However
, never has a single living cell been created from nothingness by man. The research conducted on this subject has been stopped it was all inconclusive. 
\par Consequently, the discovery of the human genetic makeup by no means implies man's challenge to his desti
ny, and it never can. Every incident, every act of speech and development are all predetermined in the sight of God according to a certain destiny. So are scientific developments and the innovations they will introduce. God is All-Knowing, and All-Encompa
ssing. The fact that everything, big or small, takes places within the knowledge of God is related in the Qur'an as follows: }{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441 
\par }{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\qj \li283\ri0\sb43\sa43\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin283\itap0 \b\f8\fs18\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
You do not engage in any matter or recite any of the Qur'an or do any action without Our witnessing you while you are occupied wit
h it. Not even the smallest speck eludes your Lord, either on earth or in heaven. Nor is there anything smaller than that, or larger, which is not in a Clear Book. (Surah Yunus: 61)
\par }{\f0\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 \page 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\qc \li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\f8\fs22\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs32\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
APPENDIX: THE LATEST FOSSIL CLAIM OF THE THEORY
\par }\pard \s16\qc \li0\ri0\sb120\sa240\sl480\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid1986441 {\f0\fs32\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 OF EVOLUTION HAS ALSO BECOME HISTORY}{
\b0\f0\fs32\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs18\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\expnd4\expndtw20\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 T}{
\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
he theory of evolution met a crushing defeat in palaeontology as well in biochemical topics such as genes, DNA and the cell systems. Fossils demonstrate that living species did not evolve from each other, but were created separately with thei
r individual specific characteristics. 
\par According to the theory of evolution, all living species evolved from one another. A previously-existing species turned into another species over time and all species came into being in this manner. According to the 
theory, this transformation has been over a very long period of hundreds of millions of years and proceeded gradually. 
\par In that case, numerous }{\b\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 "intermediary species"}{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
 should have originated and lived within this long alleged transformation period. 
\par For instance, some half-fish/half-reptiles should have lived in the past which had acquired some reptilian traits in addition to the fish traits they already had. Or some reptile-birds should have originated which had acquired some bird traits in addition
 to the reptilian traits they already had. Since they were in a transitory period, they had to be crippled, deficient, and defective living beings. Evolutionists refer to these theoretical creatures, which they believe to have lived in the past, as }{
\b\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 "transitional forms"}{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 .
\par If such animals had really existed in the past, there should be millions and even billions of them in number and variety. Darwinism is shattered right at this point, because there is not a single trace of these imaginary "intermediate transit
ional forms". 
\par This fact has been known for a long time. Yet evolutionists speculated on a few fossils, trying to present them as "intermediate transitional forms" and comforted themselves saying, "only a few intermediate forms have been found so far, but 
in the future all of them will be unearthed". The most important fossil presented as an intermediate form was a 150-million-year-old extinct bird fossil called Archaeopteryx. Evolutionists claimed that this bird had reptilian traits. Despite the fact that
 their claims have been refuted one by one and that it has been proved that Archaeopteryx was not an intermediate transitional form but a flying bird species, they desperately embraced this last fossil they had. }{
\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441 
\par }{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
\par }\pard\plain \s18\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\sb360\sa120\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid1986441 \b\f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {
\f0\fs28\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 "Fossil Discovery Threatens Theory of Birds' Evolution"
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs18\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
At last, a fossil discovered during recent weeks, definitely overthrew this last hope of evolutionists. As quoted from the evolutionist sources, a fossil was discovered which revealed that the ancient ancestor of birds was not a dinosaur or an
y other living being but a bird. 
\par News about this discovery first appeared in the world media on June 23, 2000, in }{\i\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 New York Times}{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
 with the headline }{\b\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 "Fossil Discovery Threatens Theory of Birds' Evolution"}{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
. This article was about a bird which was recently unearthed in the Middle East. Prominent scientific journals such as }{\i\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 Science }{
\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 and}{\i\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301  Nature}{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
 and the world-renowned TV station BBC announced the recent developments as follows: "It has been discovered that the f
ossil, which is unearthed in the Middle East and estimated to have lived 220 million years ago, is covered with feathers, has a wishbone just like Archaeopteryx and modern birds do, and there are hollow shafts in its feathers. THIS INVALIDATES THE CLAIMS 
THAT }{\b\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 ARCHAEOPTERYX IS THE ANCESTOR OF BIRDS}{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
, because the fossil discovered is 75 million years older than Archaeopteryx. This means that }{\b\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
A REAL BIRD WITH ALL ITS CHARACTERISTIC FEATURES ALREADY EXISTED 75 MILLION YEARS BEFORE THE CREATURE WHICH WAS ALLEGED TO BE THE ANCESTOR OF BIRDS."}{\b\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441 
\par }{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
\par }\pard\plain \s18\qj \fi284\li0\ri0\sb360\sa120\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid1986441 \b\f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {
\f0\fs28\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 A Milestone in the History of the Palaeontology 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi283\li0\ri0\sl-280\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs18\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
The admission by evolutionists themselves that Archaeopteryx is not an "intermediate transitional form" to serve as evidence for evolution is an important milestone in the hist
ory of palaeontology. This is because for about 150 years, Archaeopteryx has continued to be the most prominent among the very few so-called "intermediate transitional forms" evolutionists could advance. However, this door of escape is also closed now, an
d the world of palaeontology has had to face the plain truth that }{\b\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 there is not even a single fossil which can provide evidence for evolution. 
\par }{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 The outcomes are evident. The }{\i\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 New York Times}{
\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301  also accepted that fact and ran the headline "Fossil Discovery Threat
ens Theory of Birds' Evolution." That is true. Indeed, the ancestor of birds was a bird. The ancestor of fish was a fish, the ancestor of horses was a horse, the ancestor of kangaroos was a kangaroo and the ancestor of man was a man. In other words, }{
\b\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 all different classes of living beings emerged in the perfect and specific forms they have today. In other words, they are created by God. 
\par }{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 The conservative resistance evolutionists show towards this evident fact has now lost its last cornerstone. 
\par }\pard \s15\qj \li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par }{\f0\fs22\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\f8\fs24\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid1986441 \f8\fs24\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par }{\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid1986441 
\par }\pard\plain \s32\qj \fi454\li0\ri0\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid1986441 \f8\fs20\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs18\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441 
\par }\pard \s32\qc \fi454\li0\ri0\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid1986441 {\b\f0\fs32\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid935476 They said 'Glory be to You!
\par We have no knowledge except what
\par You have taught us. You are the
\par All-Knowing, the All-Wise.'
\par (Surat al-Baqarah: 32)
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid1986441 \f8\fs24\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par }{\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid1986441 
\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\f8\fs24\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 NOTES
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs18\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\fs16\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 1 Michael Denton, }{
\i\f0\fs16\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 Evolution:A Theory in Crisis}{\f0\fs16\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 , London: Burnett Books, 1985, p. 334.
\par 2 Frank B. Salisbury, "Doubts about the Modern Synthetic Theory of Evolution", }{\i\f0\fs16\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 American Biology Teacher}{\f0\fs16\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
, September 1971, p. 336.
\par 3 Francis Crick,}{\i\f0\fs16\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301  Life Itself: It's Origin and Nature}{\f0\fs16\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 , New York, Simon & Schuster, 1981, p. 88.
\par 4 Pierre-P Grass\'e9, }{\i\f0\fs16\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 Evolution of Living Organisms}{\f0\fs16\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 , New York: Academic Press, 1977, p. 103.
\par 5 Douglas R. Hofstadter, }{\i\f0\fs16\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 G\'f6del, Escher, Bach: An Eternal Golden Braid}{\f0\fs16\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
, New York, Vintage Books, 1980, p. 548
\par 6 Leslie E. Orgel, "The Origin of Life on the Earth", }{\i\f0\fs16\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 Scientific American}{\f0\fs16\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 , October 1994, vol. 271, p. 78.

\par 7 Michael Denton,}{\i\f0\fs16\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301  Evolution: A Theory in Crisis}{\f0\fs16\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 . London: Burnett Books, 1985, p. 351. 
\par 8 John Horgan, "In the Beginning", }{\i\f0\fs16\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 Scientific American}{\f0\fs16\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 , vol. 264, February 1991, p. 119.
\par 9 G.F. Joyce, L. E. Orgel, "Prospects for Understanding the Origin of the RNA World", }{\i\f0\fs16\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 In the RNA World}{\f0\fs16\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
, New York: Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press, 1993, p. 13.
\par 10 Jacques Monod, }{\i\f0\fs16\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 Chance and Necessity}{\f0\fs16\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 , New York: 1971, p.143.
\par 11 Leslie E. Orgel, "The Origin of Life on the Earth",}{\i\f0\fs16\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301  Scientific American}{\f0\fs16\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 , October 1994, vol. 271, p. 78.

\par 12 Chandra Wickramasinghe, Interview in }{\i\f0\fs16\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 London}{\f0\fs16\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301  }{
\i\f0\fs16\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 Daily Express}{\f0\fs16\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 , August 14, 1981.
\par 13 Werner Gitt, }{\i\f0\fs16\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 In the Beginning Was Information,}{\f0\fs16\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301  CLV, Bielefeld, Germany, p. 107, 141. 
\par 14 George C. Williams. }{\i\f0\fs16\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 The Third Culture: Beyond the Scientific Revolution}{\f0\fs16\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
, New York, Simon & Schuster, 1995, pp. 42-43
\par 15 Sibley and Ahlquist, }{\i\f0\fs16\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 Journal of Molecular Evolution}{\f0\fs16\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 , vol. 26, p. 99-121
\par 16 Sarich et al. 1989. Cladistics 5:3-32
\par 17 C. E. N. 19(1): 21-22, December 1996-February 1997
\par 18}{\i\f0\fs16\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301  New Scientist}{\f0\fs16\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 , 15 May 1999, p. 27
\par 19 }{\i\f0\fs16\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 H\'fcrriyet daily,}{\f0\fs16\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301  24 February 2000
\par 20 }{\i\f0\fs16\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 New Scientist}{\f0\fs16\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 , v. 103, 16 August 1984, p. 19
\par 21 Christian Schwabe, "On the Validity of Molecular Evolution", }{\i\f0\fs16\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 Trends in Biochemical Sciences}{\f0\fs16\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 , July 1986

\par 22 Michael Denton,}{\i\f0\fs16\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301  Evolution: A Theory in Crisis}{\f0\fs16\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 . London: Burnett Books, 1985, p. 290-291. }{
\f0\fs24\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f8\fs24\lang1033\langfe1055\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1055 {\f0\lang2057\langfe1055\langnp2057\insrsid1986441\charrsid7484301 
\par }}