{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1254\uc1\deff37\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1055\deflangfe1055{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset162\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f37\fnil\fcharset0\fprq0{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}PalatinoT\'d9rk{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f38\fnil\fcharset0\fprq0{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}GaramondT\'d9rk;}
{\f39\fnil\fcharset0\fprq0{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Insignia{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f40\fnil\fcharset0\fprq0{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}HelveticaT\'d9rk{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f41\fnil\fcharset0\fprq0{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Chaucer{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f209\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Times New Roman{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f207\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f208\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f210\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f212\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew){\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f213\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic){\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f214\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f215\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese){\*\falt Times New Roman};}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;
\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\qj \fi453\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f37\fs21\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}{\*
\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\trcbpat1\trcfpat1\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}{\*\cs15 \additive \f37\fs21 Normal1;}{
\s16\ql \li453\ri0\sa170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin453\itap0 \b\f38\fs36\expnd40\expndtw200\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\noproof\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext16 BASLIK 3;}{\s17\qj \fi453\li0\ri0\sl-330\slmult0
\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f37\fs21\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\noproof\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext17 ANA METIN;}{\s18\qj \li453\ri0\sb42\sa42\sl-300\slmult0
\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin453\itap0 \b\f37\fs19\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\noproof\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext18 ayet;}{\*\cs19 \additive \f37\super Dipnot;}{\s20\ql \li453\ri0\sb42\sa1\sl-360\slmult0
\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin453\itap0 \b\f39\fs26\expnd40\expndtw200\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\noproof\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext20 baslik;}{\s21\ql \li0\ri0\sl-220\slmult0
\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\f40\fs16\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\noproof\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext21 RESIM ALTI;}{\s22\qj \li453\ri0\sb39\sa39\sl-320\slmult0
\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin453\itap0 \f37\fs19\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\noproof\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext22 ALINTI;}{\s23\ql \li0\ri0\sl-170\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\b\f40\fs15\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\noproof\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext23 resim\'9fst\'9f;}{\s24\qj \fi453\li0\ri0\sl-360\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\b\f41\fs24\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\noproof\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext24 ARA BASLIK;}{\s25\qj \li453\ri0\sb42\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin453\itap0 
\b\f37\fs19\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\noproof\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext25 ayet\'9fst;}{\s26\qj \li453\ri0\sl-300\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin453\itap0 
\b\f37\fs19\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\noproof\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext26 ayetorta;}{\*\cs27 \additive \ul\cf2 \sbasedon10 \styrsid10621866 Hyperlink;}}
{\*\latentstyles\lsdstimax156\lsdlockeddef0{\lsdlockedexcept Normal;heading 1;heading 2;heading 3;heading 4;heading 5;heading 6;heading 7;heading 8;heading 9;toc 1;toc 2;toc 3;toc 4;toc 5;toc 6;toc 7;toc 8;toc 9;caption;Title;Default Paragraph Font;Subtitle;Strong;Emphasis;Table Grid;}}
{\*\rsidtbl \rsid1073417\rsid1776402\rsid3622650\rsid3808702\rsid4356728\rsid4863823\rsid5184933\rsid6295589\rsid6367735\rsid9245124\rsid9646545\rsid9717219\rsid10621866\rsid11157636\rsid11673661\rsid13073981\rsid15037028\rsid16546484}{\*\generator Micros
oft Word 11.0.5604;}{\info{\title THE MIRACULOUS MACHINE THAT WORKS FOR AN ENTIRE LIFETIME ENZYME}{\author HARUN YAHYA}{\operator glory}{\creatim\yr2008\mo8\dy20\min26}{\revtim\yr2008\mo8\dy21\hr1\min26}{\version13}{\edmins72}{\nofpages77}{\nofwords32745}
{\nofchars186649}{\nofcharsws218957}{\vern24689}}\widowctrl\ftnbj\aendnotes\hyphhotz0\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\lytprtmet\hyphcaps0\horzdoc\dghspace120\dgvspace120\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow0\dgvshow0
\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\bdrrlswsix\nolnhtadjtbl\oldas\nobrkwrptbl\snaptogridincell\allowfieldendsel\wrppunct\asianbrkrule\nojkernpunct\rsidroot4356728 \fet0\sectd 
\linex0\headery708\footery708\colsx708\endnhere\sectdefaultcl\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang 
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0
\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid5184933 \f37\fs21\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0\fs22\insrsid16546484 
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3808702 
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid5184933\charrsid5184933 {\*\bkmkstart OLE_LINK1}
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par }\pard \qc \li567\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin567\itap0\pararsid5184933 {\b\f0\fs72\insrsid16546484\charrsid5184933 THE MIRACULOUS MACHINE THAT WORKS FOR AN ENTIRE LIFETIME:}{\b\f0\fs72\insrsid5184933 
\par }{\b\f0\fs72\insrsid16546484\charrsid5184933 ENZYME
\par }\pard \qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid5184933 {\f0\fs22\insrsid16546484 
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid5184933 
\par 
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid5184933\charrsid5184933 
\par 
\par 
\par }\pard \qc \fi567\li0\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid5184933 {\b\f0\fs52\insrsid16546484\charrsid5184933 HARUN YAHYA
\par }\pard \qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid5184933 {\f0\fs22\insrsid16546484\charrsid5184933 {\*\bkmkend OLE_LINK1}
\par 
\par }\pard \qc \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid1776402 {\f0\fs22\insrsid10621866\charrsid5184933 \page }{\f0\fs22\insrsid1776402 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid1776402\charrsid5184933 First English Edition published in October 2007
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid1776402 
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid1776402\charrsid5184933 
\par Translated by Carl Nino Rossini
\par Edited by Tam Mossman
\par 
\par 
\par Published by:
\par GLOBAL PUBLISHING
\par Talatpasa Mah. Emirgazi Caddesi Ibrahim Elmas \'dd\'fe Merkezi
\par A Blok Kat 4 Okmeydani - Istanbul / Turkey
\par Phone: (+90 212) 222 00 88
\par 
\par 
\par Printed and bound by Secil Ofset in Istanbul
\par 100 Yil Mah. MAS-SIT Matbaacilar Sitesi 4. Cadde No: 77
\par Bagcilar-Istanbul/Turkey
\par Phone: (+90 212) 629 06 15
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid1776402 
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid1776402\charrsid5184933 
\par All translations from the Qur'an are from The Noble Qur'an: a New Rendering of its Meaning in English by Hajj Abdalhaqq and Aisha Bewley, published by Bookwork, Norwich, UK. 1420 CE/1999 AH.
\par 
\par 
\par www.harunyahya.com - www.harunyahya.net
\par }\pard \qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid1776402 {\f0\fs22\insrsid1776402\charrsid5184933 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj \fi567\li0\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid1776402 {\f0\fs22\insrsid1776402 \page }{\b\f0\fs36\insrsid1776402\charrsid1776402 Contents
\par }\pard \qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid1776402 {\f0\fs22\insrsid1776402 
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid1776402\charrsid5184933 
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid1776402 Introduction}{\f0\fs22\insrsid1776402\charrsid5184933 
\par Enzymes}{\f0\fs22\insrsid1776402  and Their Perfect Properties}{\f0\fs22\insrsid1776402\charrsid5184933 
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid1776402 The Structure of Enzymes\tab }{\f0\fs22\insrsid1776402\charrsid5184933 
\par Flawless Harmony Betwe}{\f0\fs22\insrsid1776402 en Enzymes and the Human Body\tab }{\f0\fs22\insrsid1776402\charrsid5184933 
\par T}{\f0\fs22\insrsid1776402 he Genes that Encode Enzymes}{\f0\fs22\insrsid1776402\charrsid5184933 
\par How Does an Enzyme Determine}{\f0\fs22\insrsid1776402  the Reaction It Will Affect?}{\f0\fs22\insrsid1776402\charrsid5184933 
\par The}{\f0\fs22\insrsid1776402  Enzyme's Perfect Components}{\f0\fs22\insrsid1776402\charrsid5184933 
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid1776402 Enzymes' Control Mechanisms}{\f0\fs22\insrsid1776402\charrsid5184933 
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid1776402 Enzymes' Extraordinary Speed}{\f0\fs22\insrsid1776402\charrsid5184933 
\par An Important Disc}{\f0\fs22\insrsid1776402 overy Regarding Enzyme Speed}{\f0\fs22\insrsid1776402\charrsid5184933 
\par Enzymes Are Different from Hormones, Despite Having Simil}{\f0\fs22\insrsid1776402 ar Structures}{\f0\fs22\insrsid1776402\charrsid5184933 
\par Enzymes Are Con}{\f0\fs22\insrsid1776402 stantly at Work in Our Bodies}{\f0\fs22\insrsid1776402\charrsid5184933 
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid1776402 Enzymes' Working Conditions}{\f0\fs22\insrsid1776402\charrsid5184933 
\par 
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid1776402 Types of Enzymes}{\f0\fs22\insrsid1776402\charrsid5184933 
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid1776402 Metabolic Enzymes}{\f0\fs22\insrsid1776402\charrsid5184933 
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid1776402 Food Enzymes}{\f0\fs22\insrsid1776402\charrsid5184933 
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid1776402 Digestive Enzymes}{\f0\fs22\insrsid1776402\charrsid5184933 
\par Sp}{\f0\fs22\insrsid1776402 ecial Enzymes in the Stomach}{\f0\fs22\insrsid1776402\charrsid5184933 
\par Spec}{\f0\fs22\insrsid1776402 ial Enzymes in the Intestine}{\f0\fs22\insrsid1776402\charrsid5184933 
\par The Pancreas: The Factory Th}{\f0\fs22\insrsid1776402 at Produces Digestive Enzymes}{\f0\fs22\insrsid1776402\charrsid5184933 
\par Digestive Enzymes and}{\f0\fs22\insrsid1776402  Their Perfect Organization}{\f0\fs22\insrsid1776402\charrsid5184933 
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid1776402 Enzymes That Work for DNA}{\f0\fs22\insrsid1776402\charrsid5184933 
\par Are Enzymes the Source of D}{\f0\fs22\insrsid1776402 NA, or the Other Way Around?}{\f0\fs22\insrsid1776402\charrsid5184933 
\par T}{\f0\fs22\insrsid1776402 he Enzymes That Control RNA}{\f0\fs22\insrsid1776402\charrsid5184933 
\par 
\par Some Special En}{\f0\fs22\insrsid1776402 zymes}{\f0\fs22\insrsid1776402\charrsid5184933 
\par Enzymes That T}{\f0\fs22\insrsid1776402 ransmit Messages in the Body}{\f0\fs22\insrsid1776402\charrsid5184933 
\par The Perfect Enz}{\f0\fs22\insrsid1776402 yme Chain in Blood Clotting}{\f0\fs22\insrsid1776402\charrsid5184933 
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid1776402 Lysosomal Enzymes}{\f0\fs22\insrsid1776402\charrsid5184933 
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid1776402 Enzyme Inhibitors}{\f0\fs22\insrsid1776402\charrsid5184933 
\par 
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid1776402 Enzyme Technology}{\f0\fs22\insrsid1776402\charrsid5184933 
\par Enzymes }{\f0\fs22\insrsid1776402 Are All Miracles of Creation}{\f0\fs22\insrsid1776402\charrsid5184933 
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid1776402 Conclusion}{\f0\fs22\insrsid1776402\charrsid5184933 
\par }\pard \qc \fi567\li0\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid1776402 {\f0\fs22\insrsid1776402 \page }{\b\f0\fs36\insrsid16546484\charrsid1776402 To The Reader
\par }\pard \qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid5184933 {\f0\fs22\insrsid16546484 
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid1776402\charrsid5184933 
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid16546484\charrsid5184933 A special chapter is assigned to the collapse of the theory of evolution because this theory constitutes the basis of all anti-spiritual philosophies. Since Darwinism rejects the fact of creation\emdash 
and therefore, Allah's existence\emdash over the last 150 years it has caused many people to abandon their faith or fall into doubt. It is therefore an imperative service, a very important duty to show everyone that this t
heory is a deception. Since some readers may find the chance to read only one of our books, we think it appropriate to devote a chapter to summarize this subject. 
\par All the author's books explain faith-related issues in light of Qur'anic verses, and invite 
readers to learn Allah's words and to live by them. All the subjects concerning Allah's verses are explained so as to leave no doubt or room for questions in the reader's mind. The books' sincere, plain, and fluent style ensures that everyone of every age
 
and from every social group can easily understand them. Thanks to their effective, lucid narrative, they can be read at one sitting. Even those who rigorously reject spirituality are influenced by the facts these books document and cannot refute the truth
fulness of their contents. 
\par This and all the other books by the author can be read individually, or discussed in a group. Readers eager to profit from the books will find discussion very useful, letting them relate their reflections and experiences to one another. 
\par In addition, it will be a great service to Islam to contribute to the publication and reading of these books, written solely for the pleasure of Allah. The author's books are all extremely convincing. For this reason, to communicate true religion 
to others, one of the most effective methods is encouraging them to read these books.
\par We hope the reader will look through the reviews of his other books at the back of this book. His rich source material on faith-related issues is very useful, and a pleasure to read. 
\par In these books, unlike some other books, you will not find the author's personal views, explanations based on dubious sources, styles that are unobservant of the respect and reverence due to sacred subjects, nor hopeless, pessimistic argument
s that create doubts in the mind and deviations in the heart.
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par }\pard \qc \fi567\li0\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid1776402 {\f0\fs22\insrsid5184933\charrsid5184933 \page }{\b\f0\fs36\insrsid16546484\charrsid1776402 About The Author
\par }\pard \qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid5184933 {\f0\fs22\insrsid16546484 
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid1776402\charrsid5184933 
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid16546484\charrsid5184933 Now writing under the pen-name of HARUN YAHYA, Adnan Oktar was born in Ankara in 1956. Ha
ving completed his primary and secondary education in Ankara, he studied arts at Istanbul's Mimar Sinan University and philosophy at Istanbul University. Since the 1980s, he has published many books on political, scientific, and faith-related issues. Haru
n Yahya is well-known as the author of important works disclosing the imposture of evolutionists, their invalid claims, and the dark liaisons between Darwinism and such bloody ideologies as fascism and communism. 
\par Harun Yahya's works, translated into 57 different languages, constitute a collection for a total of more than 45,000 pages with 30,000 illustrations. 
\par His pen-name is a composite of the names Harun (Aaron) and Yahya (John), in memory of the two esteemed prophets who fought against their peoples' la
ck of faith. The Prophet's (may Allah bless him and grant him peace) seal on his books' covers is symbolic and is linked to their contents. It represents the Qur'an (the Final Scripture) and Prophet Muhammad (may Allah bless him and grant him peace), last
 
of the prophets. Under the guidance of the Qur'an and the Sunnah (teachings of the Prophet [may Allah bless him and grant him peace]), the author makes it his purpose to disprove each fundamental tenet of irreligious ideologies and to have the "last word,
" so as to completely silence the objections raised against religion. He uses the seal of the final Prophet (may Allah bless him and grant him peace), who attained ultimate wisdom and moral perfection, as a sign of his intention to offer the last word. 

\par All
 of Harun Yahya's works share one single goal: to convey the Qur'an's message, encourage readers to consider basic faith-related issues such as Allah's existence and unity and the Hereafter; and to expose irreligious systems' feeble foundations and perver
ted ideologies. 
\par Harun Yahya enjoys a wide readership in many countries, from India to America, England to Indonesia, Poland to Bosnia, Spain to Brazil, Malaysia to Italy, France to Bulgaria and Russia. Some of his books are available in English, French, Ge
rman, Spanish, Italian, Portuguese, Urdu, Arabic, Albanian, Chinese, Swahili, Hausa, Dhivehi (spoken in Mauritius), Russian, Serbo-Croat (Bosnian), Polish, Malay, Uygur Turkish, Indonesian, Bengali, Danish and Swedish. 
\par Greatly appreciated all around the w
orld, these works have been instrumental in many people recovering faith in Allah and gaining deeper insights into their faith. His books' wisdom and sincerity, together with a distinct style that's easy to understand, directly affect anyone who reads the
m
. Those who seriously consider these books, can no longer advocate atheism or any other perverted ideology or materialistic philosophy, since these books are characterized by rapid effectiveness, definite results, and irrefutability. Even if they continue
 to do so, it will be only a sentimental insistence, since these books refute such ideologies from their very foundations. All contemporary movements of denial are now ideologically defeated, thanks to the books written by Harun Yahya. 
\par This is no doubt a result of the Qur'an's wisdom and lucidity. The author modestly intends to serve as a means in humanity's search for Allah's right path. No material gain is sought in the publication of these works.
\par Those who encourage others to read these books, to open their minds and hearts and guide them to become more devoted servants of Allah, render an invaluable service. 
\par Meanwhile, it would only be a waste of time and energy to propagate other books that create confusion in people's minds, lead them into ideological
 chaos, and that clearly have no strong and precise effects in removing the doubts in people's hearts, as also verified from previous experience. It is impossible for books devised to emphasize the author's literary power rather than the noble goal of sav
i
ng people from loss of faith, to have such a great effect. Those who doubt this can readily see that the sole aim of Harun Yahya's books is to overcome disbelief and to disseminate the Qur'an's moral values. The success and impact of this service are mani
fested in the readers' conviction. 
\par One point should be kept in mind: The main reason for the continuing cruelty, conflict, and other ordeals endured by the vast majority of people is the ideological prevalence of disbelief. This can be ended only with the 
ideological defeat of disbelief and by conveying the wonders of creation and Qur'anic morality so that people can live by it. Considering the state of the world today, leading into a downward spiral of violence, corruption and conflict, clearly this servi
ce must be provided speedily and effectively, or it may be too late. 
\par In this effort, the books of Harun Yahya assume a leading role. By the will of Allah, these books will be a means through which people in the twenty-first century will attain the peace, justice, and happiness promised in the Qur'an.
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj \fi567\li0\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid3622650 {\f0\fs22\insrsid1776402 \page }{\b\f0\fs36\insrsid16546484\charrsid3622650 Introduction
\par }\pard \qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid5184933 {\f0\fs22\insrsid16546484\charrsid5184933 
\par 
\par A great many processes take place in your body to allow you to move just a single limb. These processes begin with the mental decision you make, becoming ever more complex in only a few instants. The series of reactions that begins with an urge arising in
 
your brain may number in the billions, the countless enzymes in your body carry out every one of them. For even a very ordinary movement that you may want to perform, a vast number of processes occur, one after the other, inside each of your cells. Even w
h
ile these thousands of reactions take place to enable that single movement, your brain carries on, and your heart beats, and the blood circulates at full speed. Foods entering your body are digested, your cells carry on their tasks, and all your organs co
ntinue to function in a flawless, systematic manner. 
\par The activities in your cells never cease. You are not aware of them, nor do you have any control over them. All you can do is to gratefully accept the tasks they perform in order to keep you alive. 
\par The 
truth is, however, that in the same way that you have no control over these processes, neither do enzymes, other proteins, or the larger molecules that control them actually have any power to do anything. All these processes taking place in your body are 
u
nder the control of Allah (God), and by depending on and placing your faith in this perfect system, you have actually submitted to Him. You are well aware that, apart from times of illness, none of your bodily functions will behave unexpectedly. The reaso
n for your confidence is your trusting knowledge of the sublime might of Allah, Who created you so perfectly. 
\par No one who claims to believe in coincidences can live out a calm, untroubled and peaceful existence by trusting in a DNA that began copying itself
 by chance, enzymes that first entered into reactions by happenstance, or a heart that began beating accidentally. The reason why people can remain unconcerned and untroubled is their total confidence that their body's systems are able to function free of
 error. Such individuals are well aware that these countless processes cannot be explained in terms of chance.
\par If a person knows how a single system in his body works\emdash the enzyme system, for example\emdash and can grasp the marvels that take place, he will better u
nderstand that nothing in the body can happen at random. He will realize that he is witnessing a miracle, bestowed upon him as a blessing. He will discover how molecules invisible to the naked eye work constantly to keep him alive, even though he is unawa
re of it, and how they have literally been programmed to do so. He will realize how they seem to make various decisions, behave economically, engage in a division of labor and act in a controlled manner\emdash 
in short, how they behave like conscious entities. He 
will understand that it is Allah alone Who causes inanimate molecules to carry out actions requiring consciousness and how every molecule possessed by all living entities on Earth acts under Allah's inspiration. 
\par Comprehending such things is itself a bless
ing, because anyone achieving a full understanding of this will trust in Allah throughout the course of his life. He will see that it is Allah Who keeps him alive, Who sets out his destiny and constantly bestows blessings upon him. He will know that He Wh
o gives him life in this world, will also grant him life in the Hereafter, and will reward him with Paradise if He so wishes. He will turn to Allah, trust in Him and enjoy a peaceful life, free from all worries. 
\par That is one of the reasons why Allah produces perfect examples of His creative artistry. It is to be hoped that people will appreciate them and come to know Allah, our sublime Creator.
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid3622650 
\par }{\b\f0\fs22\insrsid16546484\charrsid3622650 Allah is He Who raised up the heavens without any support\emdash you can see that\emdash and then established Himself firmly on t
he Throne. He made the Sun and Moon subservient, each running for a specified term. He directs the whole affair. He makes the signs clear so that hopefully you will be certain about the meeting with your Lord. (Surat ar-Ra\lquote d: 2)
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid4863823\charrsid5184933 
\par }\pard \qc \fi567\li0\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid11157636 {\b\f0\fs36\insrsid11157636 \page }{\b\f0\fs36\insrsid16546484\charrsid11157636 Enzymes and Their Perfect Properties
\par }\pard \qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid5184933 {\f0\fs22\insrsid11157636 
\par 
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid16546484\charrsid5184933 
If Allah so chose, it could take us decades to produce just a fleeting smile. We would have to wait for years to be able to eat, to think, or to move and speak. If Allah so chose, a whole lifetime even might not be enough for us to turn over a
 single page of this book, nor even lift a single finger for the purpose of doing so. 
\par Our bodily systems do not work at this slow pace, of course. We can smile whenever we wish, walk and run, think unrestrictedly, blink in an instant, and instantaneously 
begin to do everything we have planned. That is because Almighty Allah has blessed us with a system that permits our bodies, which He has created so perfectly, to perform all their functions at great speed. Enzymes, with their extraordinary structures, ar
e one of the most important elements in this system's functioning.
\par In the chemical miracle known as enzymes, more than a hundred microscopic structures are combined in a three-dimensional form, whose details the human mind can grasp only with difficulty. Th
eir function in the body is to accelerate all processes. Enzymes are essential in order for us to blink, move our hands, see, digest\emdash in short, for us to pursue our lives. If the enzymes in your body were unable to function, you would perish.1 

\par Billions of 
the chemical devices known as enzymes are at work within you, even as you read these words. They initiate countless functions essential to your survival by performing countless processes at the same time. Unless the enzymes in your body initiated their pa
rticular events, it would be impossible for you to breathe, read these lines or move your eyes from one letter to another, let alone understand their meaning. You possess a nose, windpipe, lungs, and red blood cells to transport oxygen\emdash 
everything, in short, that you need in order to breathe. But if the enzymes in your body did not function properly, you would be unable to draw breath.
\par By the mercy of Allah, we have very superior helpers in our bodies that, by His will, are in a constant state of activity. Ag
ain by the mercy of Allah, these all help to keep us alive. Were it not for them, just one of the millions of links in the chains that keep us alive would snap, and our lives would come to an end. In providing details concerning the miraculous structures 
and functions of enzymes, this book aims to exalt the glory of Allah. That a protein too small to be seen with the naked eye can determine whether a person lives or dies, is an example of Allah's matchless artistry. 
\par Allah demonstrates His dominion over humans by making the microscopic structures known as enzymes just means for this end. He reminds us of this important truth in a verse: }{\f0\fs22\insrsid16546484 
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid4863823\charrsid5184933 
\par }{\b\f0\fs22\insrsid16546484\charrsid4863823 Say: "Who provides for you out of heaven and Earth? Who controls hearing and sight? Who brings forth the living from the d
ead and the dead from the living? Who directs the whole affair?" They will say, "Allah." Say, "So will you not guard against evil?" (Surah Yunus: 31) 
\par }\pard \qj \fi567\li0\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid4863823 {\b\f0\fs28\insrsid16546484\charrsid4863823 The Structure of Enzymes
\par }\pard \qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid5184933 {\f0\fs22\insrsid16546484\charrsid5184933 When you wish to take just one single step, the events that take place in your 
body are truly amazing. Countless nerve cells inside the brain begin emitting tiny electrical impulses to set your legs in motion. By way of the spinal cord, these impulses are transmitted to other parts of the body, and thus to your legs. When this elect
rical signal from the brain reaches the legs, it causes the muscles in that region to contract and thus your legs begin to move. 
\par All these events take place almost simultaneously. A constant flow of information from your legs and from your other senses con
tinues to reach the brain, very fast and without interruption. At the same time, the brain controls the commands it has issued for your leg muscles to move and also the movements that take place in their wake.
\par The above paragraphs describe in a highly superficial manner the events that take place in order for us to take a single step. However, they all take place thanks to the presence of enzymes. 
\par Dr. Edward Howel, who has spent many years studying enzymes, summarizes their importance and effects: 
\par Enzymes
 are substances that make life possible. They are needed for every chemical reaction that takes place in the human body. No mineral, vitamin, or hormone can do any work without enzymes. Our bodies, all of our organs, tissues, and cells, are run by metabol
i
c enzymes. They are the manual workers that build our body from proteins, carbohydrates, and fats, just as construction workers build our homes. You may have all the raw materials with which to build, but without the workers (enzymes) you cannot even begi
n.2
\par Enzymes are proteins that turn a cell into a highly developed miniature factory working within a highly ordered system. To date, over 2,000 enzymes have been identified.3 
Working inside the arteries are 98 distinct enzymes, each with its particular job to do. No one has yet been able to determine how many enzymes control the heart, brain or liver.4 
\par Enzymes initiate countless reactions within the cell, halt them when necess
ary, alter the shape of molecules, produce new combinations or eliminate ones that already exist. However, they themselves never suffer damage or undergo any changes. Having performed the needed tasks, they are ready to undertake new duties.
\par Enzymes function like catalysts: They accelerate chemical reactions without actually taking part in them. To better understand this concept, we need to understand just what catalysis is. In an environment where no enzymes are present, intense conditions
\emdash for example, ext
reme heat or highly acidic or alkaline conditions, and large amounts of what's known as activation energy are needed to break down a substance. In the laboratory, the production of activation energy depends on very critical conditions, of which the most i
m
portant is high temperature. Yet inside the cell, thousands of reactions all take place at the same time and activation energy cannot be provided by way of body temperature, since the high temperatures needed would completely damage all other functions ta
king place within the cell. 
\par A cell exposed to high heat will lose all its cytoplasm and moreover, heat would break down the hydrogen bonds, have a negative impact on DNA replication and disable many other systems within the cell. It is therefore impossible
 for the activation energy constantly required in the cell to be provided through heat. Enzymes are therefore essential for reactions to take place inside living organisms without the need for a rise in temperature, because they reduce the amount of activ
ation energy such reactions need. Catalysis is the name given to the process performed through the reduction in this energy.5
\par Enzymes perform catalysis by establishing temporary unions with the molecules they interact\emdash but do not react\emdash with. This temporary u
nion weakens existing chemical bonds and allows new ones to form, allowing for a low level of energy to be used in order for the reaction to take place.6 In this way, enzymes accelerate the reactions they participate in by a factor of 1 million to 1 trill
i
on times, in comparison to uncatalyzed reactions.7 In just one second, a single enzyme molecule may catalyze tens of thousands of identical molecules. Processes that chemists can perform only with the aid of high temperatures, reagents and special equipme
n
t, are undertaken so easily and regularly by enzymes, with no need for any acids, special apparatus, extreme temperatures or long periods of time. They carry out their functions flawlessly in a fraction of a second by producing a very low level of heat. T
h
ese special proteins process fats, alter the structure of sugar, break down starch, form new nutrients, expel wastes and purify the blood. At the same time, they assist in delaying ageing, increase the resistance of the immune system, strengthen the memor
y and eliminate carbon dioxide from the lungs.8 Enzymes are like special assistants, constantly working to keep a person alive, and are essential to the working of all bodily functions. 
\par For that reason, the complex functions\emdash and indeed, the very presence\emdash o
f enzymes both represent major problems for the theory of evolution, which maintains that all of life's structures came into being in stages spontaneously, through a series of random genetic changes. But evolutionists' claim that life developed by chance 
s
tarts from the assumption that the original structures were "simple" ones. However, modern medicine encounters new complexities regarding the human body with every passing day, further expanding the list of difficulties that evolutionists are unable to re
solve. New discoveries constantly invalidate the 19th-century theory of evolution, which was invented in order to oppose the fact of creation. 
\par Aware of this significant fact, the Cambridge University evolutionists Malcolm Dixon and Edwin C. Webb provide the following definition of enzymes, one of the major stumbling blocks confronting the theory of evolution: 
\par The whole subject of the origin of enzymes, like that of the origin of life, which is essentially the same thing, bristles with difficulties. We may 
surely say of the advent of enzymes, as Hopkins said of the advent of life, that it was the most improbable and the most significant event in the history of the universe.9
\par What Dixon and Webb describe as "difficulties" are the complexities and perfections 
that evolution cannot account for. Evolution can offer no explanation for enzymes' mind-boggling complexity. Because the sole Creator of this sublime work is Allah, and He creates all things in a perfect manner.
\par Frank Salisbury, an evolutionist and biologist, expresses this extraordinary complexity in enzymes\emdash for which evolutionists are unable to account\emdash thus: 
\par Now we know that the cell itself is far more complex than we had imagined. It includes thousands of functioning enzymes, each one of them a complex 
machine itself. Furthermore, each enzyme comes into being in response to a gene, a strand of DNA. The information content of the gene\emdash its complexity\emdash must be as great as that of the enzyme it controls.10
\par This information is most significant. Enzymes are pro
teins that, by the will of Allah, form and also act under the control of genes. Therefore, genes themselves must have as at least as much complexity as enzymes. These words will serve as a reminder of the sophistication genes possess:
\par For example, we are t
old that the information content of the gene in its complexity must be as great as the enzyme it controls. Yet just one medium-sized protein will consist of about 300 amino acids! That protein was made by a DNA gene, which would have to have about 1,000 n
ucleotides in its chain. Since there are four kinds of nucleotides in a single DNA chain, one with 1,000 links could exist in 41000 different forms [Emphasis added]. That is 4 followed by a thousand zeros. 
\par Yet all this complexity is required to make the simplest living creature.11 
\par Evolutionists claim that every structure in any living organism came into being as the result of long, slow stages and formed by chance by way of various mechanisms. (For more details on this subject, see Harun Yahya, Darwinism R
efuted.) But the fact is that mutation and natural selection, which evolutionists propose as evolutionary agents, actually provide no evolutionary properties at all. No organ in any living thing has ever been observed to "evolve" by changing and assuming 
a
 form that could be of benefit to the organism as a whole. In addition, recent advances in medicine, biology and microbiology have revealed that any change in the protein or genes of an organism will only result in breakages, impairments and serious damag
e to its genetic information. 
\par It is impossible for any gene or protein to turn into some other gene or protein with a completely different function. Evolutionists claim that the first protein was formed by chance under totally uncontrolled conditions, but 
they have never been able to produce one in the laboratory. It is unequivocally impossible for such a complex structure\emdash which eminent scientists have been unable to reproduce using modern-day technology in state-of-the-art laboratories\emdash 
to have come into existence spontaneously through random accidents. 
\par Enzymes are all proteins, complex structures formed by way of extraordinary information contained in genes that themselves cannot have come into being by chance, and which function, at Allah's choosing, unde
r the control of that gene. It is therefore impossible for them to have come into existence in stages, since the functions that enzymes perform are too precise, and the information that genes contain is so enormous. 
\par Despite being an evolutionist, Sir Fred Hoyle, the Cambridge University mathematician and astronomer, summarized the fact that enzymes cannot come into being by chance: 
\par If there were a basic principle of matter which somehow drove organic systems towards life, its existence should easily be de
monstrable in the laboratory. One could, for instance, take a swimming bath to represent the primordial soup. Fill it with any chemicals of a non-biological nature you please. Pump any gases over it, or through it, you please, and shine any kind of radiat
i
on on it that takes your fancy. Let the experiment proceed for a year and see how many of those 2,000 enzymes have appeared in the bath. I will give the answer, and so save the time and trouble and expense of actually doing the experiment. You would find 
n
othing at all, except possibly for a tarry sludge composed of amino acids and other simple organic chemicals. How can I be so confident of this statement? Well, if it were otherwise, the experiment would long since have been done and would be well-known a
nd famous throughout the world. The cost of it would be trivial compared to the cost of landing a man on the Moon.12
\par Even if evolutionists possessed a great many more conditions than those Hoyle refers to; even if they ran such an experiment in as many labo
ratories as they wished; even if they added to the experiment all the existing organic substances, all the gasses and chemicals they could; even if they exposed them to whatever external influences they liked; even if they added as many amino acids and pr
o
tein building blocks as they wanted; and then waited for centuries alongside the beaker or retort into which they placed all these substances, never will they be able to produce a single enzyme produced in a living thing. Evolutionists have not the slight
est piece of evidence to offer as proof for the formation of a single protein. 
\par We need to bear this constantly in mind as we examine the subject of proteins. Because the existence of one single enzyme is sufficient to do away with the nonsense of evolution\emdash 
as well as being major proof that constantly displays the boundless might and power of Allah. 
\par Enzymes take part in almost all an organism's chemical reactions, speeding them in an extraordinary manner. But again, they emerge from the reaction in the same state as they went into it\emdash 
in other words, they remain unaltered. Once the reaction has taken place, newly formed molecules separate from the enzyme, and the enzyme continues on its way, ready to enter into still other reactions. 
\par This feature is very imp
ortant, because in this way, an enzyme is able to enter into countless reactions inside the cell and is able to keep the entire organism alive. In this way, hundreds of thousands of reactions take place constantly every minute, inside every cell.13
\par Every o
ne of the 2,000 or so different enzymes in the human body is able to catalyze a specific chemical reaction. Understandably, cells with different functions have different kinds of enzymes. Cells work only with those enzymes that will carry out the required
 reactions. Therefore, the specific enzymes any cell produces are an important element in identifying that cell's actions and functions.
\par Fred Hoyle made the following calculation regarding the astonishing power of enzymes: 
\par The probability of forming the 2,000 or so enzymes needed by a cell lies in the realm of 1 in 1040,000. This makes the conceptual leap from even the most complex \lquote 
soup' to the simplest cell in the time available (that is about 500 million years) so dramatic that it requires some suspension of rationality in order to accept it.14
\par All the structures of the living things on Earth have different levels of complexity. And the enormous variety of structures they possess reveal only a flawless creation. Living things possess molecular "handymen" 
that divide tasks among themselves, constantly communicate with one another, act dependently on each other and carry out true miracles of efficiency. It is impossible for them to decide beforehand how many reactions they will enter into, to then act in a 
conscious manner, know which cell to operate in, determine what processes to accelerate and by how much. Yet although this is indeed impossible, enzymes never make a mistake, because all their actions are inspired.
\par It is Allah Who constantly inspires them w
ith what they have to do. And it is He Who continually creates them. In the same way that Allah gives a human being both a body and a soul, and creates him with all his perfect organs and senses, He also creates with the same perfection the extraordinary 
events that take place within the cell. For that reason, the enzyme system functions perfectly, just like the other systems inside the cell. No power apart from Allah's can create these, and Allah reveals this fact in one verse:
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid11157636 
\par }{\b\f0\fs22\insrsid16546484\charrsid11157636 Is it other than the religion of Allah that you desire, when everything in the heavens and Earth, willingly or unwillingly, submits to Him and to Him you will be returned? (Surah Al \lquote Imran: 83) 
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid16546484\charrsid5184933 
\par 
\par }\pard \qc \fi567\li0\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid11157636 {\b\f0\fs32\insrsid11157636 \page }{\b\f0\fs36\insrsid16546484\charrsid11157636 Flawless Harmony Between Enzymes}{
\b\f0\fs36\insrsid6367735\charrsid11157636 
\par }{\b\f0\fs36\insrsid16546484\charrsid11157636 and the Human Body
\par }\pard \qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid5184933 {\f0\fs22\insrsid16546484 
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid11157636\charrsid5184933 
\par }\pard \qj \fi567\li0\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid4863823 {\b\f0\fs28\insrsid16546484\charrsid4863823 The Genes that Encode Enzymes
\par }\pard \qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid5184933 {\f0\fs22\insrsid16546484\charrsid5184933 
Enzymes are all proteins, and therefore have a protein structure, possessing the three-dimensional structural features unique to proteins. For that reason they are easily able to attach to other molecules and take part in reactions. 
\par Although amino acids are the building blocks of proteins, what gives a protein\emdash and thus, an enzyme\emdash 
its characteristic feature is the order and number of the amino acids and the so-called peptide bonds that connect two amino acids together.15 Which reactions an individual enzyme
 will affect, as well as their speed, are determined by the features and arrangement of the amino acids. But what determines which amino acids an enzyme should consist of? 
\par Imagine an enzyme consisting of 100 amino acids. Since there are 20 different kinds
 of amino acids in living organisms, these hundred amino acids can be arranged in 10020 different ways. Yet only one of all these sequences will constitute the proper enzyme. Here it is the genes that, by the will of Allah, determine the correct sequence.
 
As already pointed out, enzymes are arranged and controlled by genes. All proteins, whether within the structure of the cell or those exhibiting enzyme activity, are synthesized by genes, which tell the enzymes which duties they are to assume. In other wo
rds, their encoded instructions determines which reactions enzymes must enter into. In light of this information, enzymes head for the specific molecules they will launch into reactions.
\par Here, it will be useful to recall that neither enzymes nor the genes t
hat encode their behavior are conscious entities. It is impossible for genes, much less the enzymes that receive data from them, to act of their own accord, to think about making any decision, or to produce their own special codes. Made up of protein and 
f
ats, they are not conscious entities and have no way of knowing what a human being needs to live, how to intervene in a reaction, nor what purpose that reaction is to serve. They cannot have acquired their complex structure, nor accelerate thousands of re
a
ctions a second as the result of chance. Yet although lacking consciousness, they perform miraculous processes in every cell because they have submitted to Allah, their Creator. They obey Him, and act in the light of His inspiration. Keep this in mind as 
you read these pages. 
\par Genes encode both the proteins inside the cell and also those that serve as enzymes. But what determines that a protein they manufacture will serve as an enzyme? In other words, what determines the enzyme's ability to become involved 
in chemical reactions and accelerating them millions of times? 
\par In strictly chemical terms, this is explained by characteristics in the chemical structure of the amino acids. Amino acids consist of an amino group (-NH2) attached to a single carbon atom, hy
drogen, a carboxyl group (-COOH) and varying side chains (-R) that can be composed of different molecules. What distinguishes one amino acid from another are its size, shape, electrical charge, water affinity and activity of the side chains it carries. Th
e characteristic of the amino acids constituting enzymes is that they interact with one another, as a result of which they acquire a three-dimensional form that allows the chain to bend and curve. 
\par How these amino acids are arranged gives the resulting prot
eins various properties. Accordingly, proteins assume what are called primary, secondary, tertiary and quaternary structures. In the primary structure, a flat polypeptide chain operates. In the secondary structure, the protein acquires a three-dimensional
 
shape and its functions are determined according to its particular three-dimensional shape. The polypeptide chains are packed in the same horizontal plane and give the protein a helix shape. In a tertiary structure, that helix structure in question assume
s a special shape by becoming bent. In a quaternary structure, all the emerging subunits come together, giving rise to a more complex structure.
\par Enzymes are proteins with a three-dimensional tertiary structure. By folding and bending, the amino acids making
 up their proteins endow enzymes with a special shape that's of the greatest importance, because they enable a great many life-giving functions to take place. Their three-dimensional tertiary structure permits polypeptide chains to fold over, knot togethe
r or wind around themselves, and permits enzymes themselves to vary greatly. 
\par The tertiary structure endows an enzyme with still other properties. The primary structure of proteins consists solely of covalent bonds\emdash a form of chemical bonding formed by the s
haring of electrons between atoms. These powerful bonds decrease ever further in subsequent structures, until in a quaternary structure there are no covalent bonds at all. In a tertiary structure, the covalent bonds that form enzymes appear only in region
s between adjacent chains. This enables only the surface regions of the enzyme to bond tightly to one another in order to grasp molecules and let them enter into reactions. The power of these bonds keeps them from breaking.
\par It is only the enzyme's "shape" t
hat determines whether it's a blood-clotting enzyme or one that is involved in digestion. But how did any enzyme come to possess its highly specialized form? Out of millions of possibilities, how is it that enzymes always assume the correct shape? If evol
u
tionists maintain that the first enzyme or the first gene that formed it appeared on Earth spontaneously and by chance, then they are forced to explain the development of all of an enzyme's complex details, as well as the three-dimensional form that deter
mines its properties. In addition, they must account for the special abilities of the genes responsible for encoding this. If the special form in the very first enzyme came about by coincidence, through trial and error\emdash 
impossible, though assuming that it actually did happen\emdash then a simple calculation reveals that for a single enzyme molecule consisting of 100 amino acids to test out all the different possible permutations would take 20 billion years16\emdash 
a much greater time frame than the age of the universe itself! 
\par And that probability emerges only if we imagine that amino acids are consciously able to employ the method of trial and error. Yet it is completely impossible for amino acids to combine without any conscious method, to form a small enzyme molecule co
nsisting of 100 amino acids. Therefore, evolutionists are totally unable to account for the formation of an enzyme and its particular three-dimensional form. 
\par Duane T. Gish, director of the Institute of Creation Research, explains this impossibility: 
\par One 
hundred amino acids of 20 different kinds can be arranged in 20100 (10130) different ways. If 1011 of these could function as the primitive enzyme, and if a billion trillion (1021) of the various protein molecules of 100 amino acids formed each second for
 five billion years (approximately 1017 seconds) the chance of getting a single molecule of one of the required sequences is 10130/1021x1017x1011, or only one chance out of 1081. This is, for all practical purposes, equal to zero probability.17
\par As this example shows, it's impossible for amino acids to come together by chance in the correct sequence to form an enzyme. Therefore, any one enzyme's existence and functions totally eliminate the idea of gradual evolution.
\par 
\par }{\b\f0\fs28\insrsid16546484\charrsid6367735 How Does an Enzyme Determine }{\b\f0\fs28\insrsid6367735 
\par }{\b\f0\fs28\insrsid16546484\charrsid6367735 the Reaction It Will Affect?
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid16546484\charrsid5184933 
In the structure of the amino acids that make up the enzyme, the various side chains accumulate in one region of the enzyme to form a three-dimensional structure known as the "active site." This is where the enzyme binds to other substanc
es during a reaction.
\par That substance, on which the enzyme will act, is known as the substrate. The active site of any particular enzyme can fit into the substrate of only the molecule it will affect. It is impossible for this substrate to bind to the activ
e site of any other enzyme. The enzymes' active sites possess two important components. One of them recognizes the substrate and the other, upon binding to the substrate, is responsible for catalyzing the reaction. 
\par Within the body, in fact, the enzyme and
 the substrate are two structures that are entirely foreign to one another. Although they have never seen each other, the moment they meet inside a volume many billions of times larger than themselves, they can distinguish each another from among a very l
arge number of molecules and bind together. 
\par One of the main features that permits this bonding to occur is the enzyme's tertiary structure. The molecule that bends and assumes its own special three-dimensional shape possesses a gap of highly complex geomet
ry into which the substrate will fit perfectly. The active site and the substrate fit together just like a lock and a key. In the absence of the key\emdash the enzyme, in other words\emdash 
the door can be opened only by forcing it, which inside the human body is impossible because of the high level of energy that would be required. 
\par In the same way that any single lock can only open a single door, specific enzymes are compatible only with specific substrates. This compatibility also takes effect at an impressive speed\emdash s
o great that an enzyme sometimes binds to 300 substrates, in a specific sequence, in just one second. It converts those substances into different molecules, then breaks away. This process will continue uninterruptedly throughout your life.
\par Within the cell,
 the numbers of enzymes and substrates are actually quite small. That being so, how are the enzymes and the substrates matching them able to locate one another? If the cell's inside structure were static, it might never be possible for enzymes and substra
t
es to bond together, despite their both being in the same environment. But no such problem exists, since the contents of the cell is in a constant state of motion. Various movements caused by heat occur at the molecular level; and molecules inside the cel
l
 are moving constantly from one place to another. The interconnected atoms that compose these molecules vibrate in situ. Proteins, which are larger molecules, revolve around their own axes some million times a second. This astonishing motion leads to all 
molecules within the cell constantly colliding with one another.
\par As a result of these collisions around 500,000 times a second, the active site of an enzyme is subjected to a bombardment by the relevant substrate molecules, despite their low numbers inside 
the cell. As a result of this bombardment, the substrate fits into the surface of the relevant enzyme and these molecules immediately assume the form of an enzyme-substrate molecule, now ready to enter into a reaction.18
\par Enzymes bind to any substrate they meet\emdash whether compatible with them or not\emdash 
by means of very weak hydrogen bonds. The structure of the hydrogen bonds give the enzyme and substrate their own unique shape and property. In addition to the hydrogen bonds, howe
ver, when the enzyme encounters the correct substrate and the two join together, new bonds form\emdash 
including such chemical interactions as van der Waals force, electrostatic force and hydrophobic bonds. Thanks to such bonds, the link between the enzyme and substrate is strengthened, reducing the possibility of their separating. 
\par If one of the two colliding molecules is not a substrate of the other, then the conditions are rather different. Two molecules form a weak bond between their more or less compatible su
rfaces, as if they were attempting to join together. The energy released is insignificant. The moment the enzyme recognizes that it does not have the key to open the substrate in question, it breaks these weak bonds and rapidly moves away. This is a most 
important precaution, preventing incorrect or unwanted bonds from forming between incompatible molecules.19 
\par Enzymes and substrates that fit together also take precautions. Recent evidence indicates that when an enzyme interacts with the substrate, it may change shape slightly, much as a glove that changes shape somehow to fit the hand it covers.20
\par The structures we have described here as seemingly conscious entities are simply two molecules, with no ability to see, hear, communicate or make any decisions. T
he abilities they appear to display successfully inside the human body actually belong to Allah, Who controls and supervises them at every moment. No substrate can bind to an enzyme unless Allah so wishes it, nor perform the processes that permit a person
's vital functions. An enzyme only locates the component necessary for it, matches it and tries various ways of combining with it\emdash exhibiting seemingly rational, conscious behavior under the direction of Allah. 
\par The way that inanimate molecules display such 
behavior is a great miracle. Those unable or unwilling to see the evident miracle here look elsewhere by ascribing some extraordinary intelligence to molecules themselves, to atoms, or even to chance itself. In fact, however, all scientific endeavor decla
res that Allah is the sole Lord of Earth, the sole mighty and sublime Creator. Allah creates from nothing and manifests His own omniscience in the entities He chooses.
\par }{\b\f0\fs22\insrsid9646545 
\par }{\b\f0\fs22\insrsid16546484\charrsid6367735 Yes, indeed! Everyone in the heavens and everyone on the Earth belongs to Allah. Those wh
o call on something other than Allah are not really following their partner-deities. They are only following conjecture. They are only guessing. (Surah Yunus: 66)
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid9646545 
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid16546484\charrsid5184933 What if the key did not fit the lock? What if the enzyme were in the correct location, but di
d not match the substrate? What if the enzyme reached the site of the reaction needing to be accelerated, but then passed by the relevant molecules? If because of just such a structural incompatibility, the enzymes necessary to coagulate the blood flowing
 
from an open wound failed to perform their duties, then the blood would never be able to clot. No reactions essential for cell renewal could ever occur, nor could vital processes be maintained at the same rate and in the same order. For an enzyme to do wh
at is expected of it, it has to recognize the substance\emdash in other words, the substrate\emdash 
on which it has to act and to match it completely. By the will of Allah, there is never any such problem in this regard in the living body. Every enzyme recognizes without
 difficulty the substrate it must react with and, since it acts under the inspiration of Allah, never makes a mistake in carrying out the process it needs to perform. The key always fits the lock; the needed reaction always takes place.
\par All this happens in
side a cell with a diameter of just 0.01 millimeter. (A cell is between 10 and 100 microns in size.) Compatible molecules and the chemical bonds between them are all contained in a space just 0.01 mm in size. Three-dimensional structures, molecules attach
ed to one another, cavities with specific geometries on the molecular surface, and other molecules with the geometric shapes to fit those cavities are all contained inside that area. Molecules that are compatible with one another\emdash 
that are evidently aware of one another and can determine each other's requirements, that are capable of setting aside time, that never tire and are easily able to identify any molecule they encounter\emdash 
all work within that environment. And recall that environment is only a cell less 
than 100 microns in diameter, in which electrons are in constant motion. A system inside the cell gives rise to a perfection exceeding all human capabilities, intelligence and knowledge, one that mankind can scarcely ever equal, which never goes wrong or 
makes a mistake\emdash a totally conscious system. 
\par That consciousness does not belong to the cell itself, of course. It cannot belong to molecules, mere collections of atoms that are unaware of one another inside the cell, nor to unconscious enzymes that come and
 go among these molecules. Neither does this consciousness belong to the human body that harbors all of these, nor to the human brain. The source of this consciousness is Allah, the Omniscient and Almighty, and He manifests His infinite might and intellig
ence in everything that He creates. He is manifest in the boundless universe as well as in enzymes just a hundredth of a millimeter in size. Great or small, it makes no difference\emdash 
there is the same complexity, perfection and artistry in all, because Allah creates them all with His boundless knowledge. 
\par Allah tells us this in a verse: 
\par }{\b\f0\fs22\insrsid9646545 
\par }{\b\f0\fs22\insrsid16546484\charrsid6367735 Don't they see that Allah, Who created the heavens and Earth, has the power to create the like of them, and has appointed fixed terms for them of which there is no doubt? But t
he wrongdoers still spurn anything but disbelief. (Surat al-Isra': 99) 
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid16546484\charrsid5184933 
\par }{\b\f0\fs28\insrsid16546484\charrsid6367735 The Enzyme's Perfect Components
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid16546484\charrsid5184933 The detail, fineness and complexity observed down to the very smallest part of the cell is equally striking in all the components that make up enzymes.
 In the micro-world composed of molecules, even enzymes, which can be discerned only by the use of advanced microscopes, have components with their own complex and astonishing features. Every minute element that goes to make up an enzyme, that permits it 
to function and bestows upon it a three-dimensional structure, is vital to the enzyme's survival. The removal of any one of these parts, or a change in its shape or location, will mean that the enzyme can no longer function.
\par Some enzymes, referred to as "si
mple enzymes," are composed wholly of protein. Other enzymes, however, consist of two separate parts, known as the apoenzyme and the coenzyme. The apoenzyme part is made up of large protein molecules, and this section determines the nature of the enzyme. 
The protein structure that distinguishes this enzyme from all others\emdash in other words, the types and arrangement of amino acids\emdash is determined in this region. 
\par The coenzyme is that part which gives the enzyme is catalytic quality, the part that enables it to s
erve as a catalyst. By themselves, apoenzymes exhibit no catalytic features. In the same way, although coenzymes endow the enzyme with its catalytic activity, coenzymes have virtually no effect on their own. Both components need to be present together in 
order for the enzyme to be active and functional. 
\par The coenzyme section permits the bonding between the enzyme and the substrate. Basically, it is the portion of the enzyme that does the work. All vitamins serve as the coenzyme part of the enzyme in the cel
l.21 For example, Vitamin A is part of the enzyme that carries out reactions involved in vision. Vitamin A completes the enzyme protein by serving as a coenzyme and sets it in motion in order to carry out the processes that enable the eye to see. If Vitam
in A is absent, even if all the mechanisms that permit sight are present, the result is night blindness.22 Vitamin C, on the other hand, serves in synthesizing the protein collagen that binds our tissues together.
\par Minerals also act as enzymes' coenzymes. Ca
lcium, magnesium, potassium and zinc are essential for some enzymes to function. For example, zinc is essential to the DNA polymerase enzyme, which we shall be examining in more detail in due course; and nickel is essential as a side chain for the enzyme 
u
rease. In addition to these basic elements, enzymes may become functional with the presence of many other molecules. The Illinois University biologist Dr. Gary Parker, who was formerly an evolutionist but who is now an advocate of the fact of creation, ma
kes this remark about the enzymes' indispensable components:
\par When it comes to "translating" DNA's instructions for making proteins, the real "heroes"' are the activating enzymes. Enzymes are proteins with special slots for selecting and holding other molecu
les for speedy reaction. Each activating enzyme has five slots: two for chemical coupling, one for energy (ATP), and most importantly, two to establish a non-chemical three-base "code name" for each different amino acid R-group. And that is not the end of
 
the story. The living cell requires at least 20 of these activating enzymes I call "translases," one for each of the specific R-group/code name (amino acid/tRNA) pairs. Even so, the whole set of translases (100 specific active sites) would be (1) worthles
s
 without ribosomes (50 proteins plus rRNA) to break the base-coded message of heredity into three-letter code names; (2) destructive without a continuously renewed supply of ATP energy to keep the translases from tearing up the pairs they are supposed to 
form; and (3) vanishing if it weren't for having translases and other specific proteins to re-make the translase proteins that are continuously and rapidly wearing out because of the destructive effects of time . . . on protein structure!23
\par 
\par An enzyme is an
 irreducibly complex molecule, all of whose components work together and must be present at the same time. When you remove any single component, the system will not just suffer minor damage but will cease to function. An enzyme has to exist together with 
a
ll the systems within it, the amino acids, ribosome and all other organelles. Neither is it sufficient for it to exist with all its parts; it must be present in an environment containing the other molecules with which it will react and be suitable to the 
working conditions of that living environment. 
\par This all goes to make the enzyme a complex structure that Darwinists are absolutely unable to account for. It is impossible for even one single component of this perfect system to develop independently of the 
others, to wait for the others to come into being, and for all the parts that have arisen by chance to combine\emdash again by chance.
\par Moreover, certain enzymes are capable of functioning in different organisms with completely different characteristics. An enzyme
 devoid of consciousness and composed of inanimate atoms can assist in the human body's cell reproduction and also assist with the process of sight in another organism with a completely different structure and function. This is a literal miracle, because 
u
nder normal circumstances, it is not possible for an enzyme to depart from its own normal working conditions, adapt to others and still continue to function. Even the enzymes in the human stomach are unable to change their working environment and operate 
i
n the muscles or the kidneys. This shows that the same enzymes were specially created for different life forms. It is Allah, the Lord of all the knowledge in the worlds, Who creates them in such a way as to know how they will function in which body and Wh
o
 endows them with different functions, despite giving them the same appearance. The way that an enzyme knows how it must work in the human body and yet assumes the functions determined for it in another creature's body with no confusion arising is one of 
the awe-inspiring works of Almighty Allah.
\par That some enzymes can serve different functions in different organisms does not alter the fact that very different enzymes are constantly at work in all living things. It will be useful to recall that in addition t
o the 1 million living species on Earth, there are some 10 million more that have become extinct. Bearing these figures in mind, the variety of enzymes specially created for each living species is really astounding.
\par The late Isaac Asimov, one of the 20th century's best known writers on science, describes this great variety of proteins possessed by living things: 
\par Now, almost each of all the thousands of reactions in the body is catalyzed by a specific enzyme . . . a different one in each case . . . and ever
y enzyme is a protein, a different protein. The human body is not alone in having thousands of different enzymes\emdash 
so does every other species of creature. Many of the reactions that take place in human cells also happen in the cells of other creatures. Some
 of the reactions, indeed, are universal, in that they take place in all cells of every type. This means that an enzyme capable of catalyzing a particular reaction may be present in the cells of wolves, octopi, moss, and bacteria, as well as in our own ce
l
ls. And yet each of these enzymes, capable though it is of catalyzing one particular reaction, is characteristic of its own species. They may all be distinguished from one another. It follows that every species of creature has thousands of enzymes and tha
t all those enzymes may be different. Since there are over a million different species on earth, it may be possible\emdash judging from the enzymes alone\emdash that different proteins exist by the millions!24 
\par Recall that in addition to all this, enzymes work in a compl
etely interconnected system. One enzyme merely initiates an event, and countless other enzymes subsequently become involved. During these stages, known as the metabolic pathway, there is perfect coordination and control among all the enzymes. But in order
 for this system to operate fully, it is vital that the enzymes setting one another in motion should know their tasks and the exact timings thereof.
\par An enzyme inside a particular metabolic pathway uses the product previously manufactured by another enzyme a
s its new substrate. To put it another way, the results of a reaction carried out by one enzyme is necessary in order for another enzyme to initiate its own reaction. When the whole chain has been completed, the final product emerging is the inhibitor of 
one of the enzymes that initiated the chain\emdash 
in other words, it prevents its operation. In this way, the production within the entire chain is balanced. For example, the enzyme amylase turns starch into maltose, which the enzyme maltase then converts into gl
ucose. Eleven enzymes become involved one after the other and eventually, glucose is transformed into lactic acid. 
\par Another similar awe-inspiring chain can also be seen in the blood-clotting process, whose details we shall examine in due course. Thanks to 
the features in this metabolic pathway that let enzymes set one another in motion, the system functions with a perfect timing and division of labor. Clotting takes place over the wound site in just the right way. Evolutionists are unable to account for th
e
 existence of just one single enzyme, and have absolutely no way of explaining this entire "irreducibly complex" chain established by a number of interconnected enzymes, no component of which can be removed. They claim that chance carried out these extrao
rdinary processes, shaping all their scenarios in the light of that preconception. 
\par In fact, however, these scenarios have no scientific or logical foundation. The evolutionist physicist and astronomer Fred Hoyle openly states this fact: 
\par I don't know how long it is going to be before astronomers generally recognize that the combinatorial arrangement of not even one among the many thousands of biopolymers on which life depends could have been arrived at by natural processes here on the Ear
th. Astronomers will have a little difficulty in understanding this because they will be assured by biologists that it is not so, the biologists having been assured in their turn by others that it is not so. The \lquote 
others' are a group of persons who believe, quite openly, in mathematical miracles. They advocate the belief that tucked away in nature, outside of normal physics, there is a law which performs miracles (provided the miracles are in the aid of biology).25

\par All evolutionist claims regarding the develo
pment of life are based upon deceptions. They seek to expand this method of deception and to use it on readers and listeners. Yet the one truth that evolutionists are unwilling to understand is that chance cannot work miracles. Chance does not represent a
 mind, a consciousness or an intelligence. It is impossible for it to give rise to phenomena and functions that operate in any conscious manner. Allah is the Creator of all the astonishing and miraculous beauty on Earth.
\par }{\b\f0\fs22\insrsid9646545 
\par }{\b\f0\fs22\insrsid16546484\charrsid6367735 Allah is the Creator of everything and He is Guardian over everything. The keys of the heavens and earth belong to Him. It is those who reject Allah's signs who are the losers. (Surat az-Zumar: 62-63)}{
\b\f0\fs22\insrsid16546484 
\par }{\b\f0\fs22\insrsid9646545 
\par }{\b\f0\fs28\insrsid16546484\charrsid6367735 Enzymes' Control Mechanisms
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid16546484\charrsid5184933 The thousands of enzymes inside a cell are in constant competi
tion with one another for substrates. Each one is a part of a chain reaction or a link in a metabolic pathway; and different enzymes will compete for the same substrate. So complex is this system that keen organization is essential to determine the timing
 of each reaction and the speed at which it occurs.
\par For that reason, the sequence, number and timing of reactions are maintained under meticulous control. So well ordered is the catalytic activity of enzymes that the products emerging from their reactions a
re sufficient to meet all the cell's needs.26 There must be constant order if enzymes are to work together and carry out the requisite processes at such high speeds. All the stages are thus subject to strict control. Synthesizing reactions take place when
 
a new product is needed in the cell, and destructive ones occur when molecules need to be eliminated. Generally speaking, enzymes are synthesized at low rates unless the cell has a particular need. If demand rises, however, new enzymes are synthesized at 
great speed.
\par Enzymes are also adapted to the equilibrium determined for them. The enzyme lipase, for example, breaks down fat, but also has the job of combining glycerin and fatty acids. Which reaction will take place is of great importance, because as ener
gy is expended in one of the reactions performed, it is supplied by another. Any reaction requiring energy needs to occur at the same time as those producing energy, or else it must in some way be stored beforehand. The compound adenosine triphosphate (AT
P for short) works just like a battery to conserve this energy.27
\par Enzyme control is established also by specialized inhibitors entering the equation. As will be examined in greater detail in due course, each enzyme has, in turn, its own inhibitor enzyme. Th
ese inhibitors establish an important balance inside the cell that prevents excessive production of enzymes. 
\par Enzymes are not active until the need for them becomes felt. One example of this can be seen in the formation of purine and pyrimidine bases. Pyri
midines activate purine molecules, and equal quantities of both substances need to be present in the cell to enable the production of DNA and RNA. When a sufficient amount of purine forms, inhibitors halt further purine production by stopping the enzyme t
h
at releases it, and activate enzymes that initiate production of pyrimidine. In response to this, when pyrimidines halt their own enzymes, they also activate purine enzymes. The relationship between the synthesis of these two substances ensures that the s
ame level of each is always maintained inside the cell.28
\par Regulatory systems constantly maintain the control system within each cell and make the requisite arrangements when the need arises. As you can see, it is not enough for enzymes merely to accelerate 
reactions and to obtain the substances that the body requires. Your body is so complex that while a series of reactions takes places uninterruptedly, their timing also needs to be determined at the very same instant. In regard to this timing, it is vitall
y important that the amounts produced should be regulated\emdash 
neither a milligram too much or too little. Precautions must be taken so that there is high production when the body needs it, but that the production can be halted when it is no longer necessary... 
\par First, of course, that need must be determined. So perfect is this determination that an enzyme "knows" and reacts in as little as 1/1000 second. All these occurrences continue on in an error-free manner, in complete order, without you ever being aware of
 what's happening.
\par Within the human body, there is a miraculous system wherein everything is planned and arranged to perfection. Every component monitors and appears to encode everything else. The presence of one component is essential to the functioning o
f all the others, and thus the chain system carries on its work. The human body is a perfect machine whose marvels are displayed at every point, right down to the smallest organelles inside the cell. The reason for this is that all components have bowed t
o
 Allah. All the elements comprising this system operate through His inspiration, performing the tasks determined by Him in the place determined by Him. It is Almighty Allah Who determines how much of which enzyme is required and how production should take
 
place. All the control mechanisms discussed operate solely by Allah's leave, and all the systems that encode proteins and regulate enzymes are also under His control. Unconscious molecules clearly have no power to carry out the processes that take place i
n the cell every second. That power belongs to Allah alone.
\par Allah's sublime artistry prevails in all things. A person can see this everywhere he looks, in every cell he examines. Because this is the sole truth that prevails throughout the Earth and heavens. Allah has revealed this in another verse: 
\par }{\b\f0\fs22\insrsid16546484\charrsid6367735 The Unseen of the heavens and the Earth belongs to Allah and the whole affair will be returned to Him. So worship Him and put your trust in Him. Your Lord is not unaware of what you do. (Surah Hud: 123)
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid16546484\charrsid5184933 
\par }{\b\f0\fs28\insrsid16546484\charrsid6367735 Enzymes' Extraordinary Speed
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid16546484\charrsid5184933 
Were it not for enzymes, a whole lifetime would not be enough for a single chemical reaction to take place. Reactions that would otherwise take hundreds of years to occur are so accelerated by enzymes that they do so not in hours or mi
nutes, but in a matter of milliseconds. Enzymes can accelerate a reaction by up to 1014 times.29 This is a number consisting of 1 followed by 14 zeros. Were it not for that speed, a simple five-second process, such as the reading of this sentence, would l
ast 1,500 years.30
\par Were it not for enzymes, processes that cells can perform in seconds would take thousands of years. To put it more bluntly, life would be impossible. Enzymes have been charged with accelerating countless reactions essential for the vitali
ty of any organism, to an extraordinary rapidity. 
\par But what does an enzyme do to establish such speed? As we have already seen, enzymes reduce the energy needed for a reaction to take place. But just what is this activation energy? We can describe it thus:
 In terms of energy, under normal conditions, the most suitable molecule for carbon to combine with is carbon dioxide. When these two are present in the same environment they will act on one another and have a combustive effect. Yet even though these two 
s
ubstances are present in the same living body, they never combust. Although the book you are holding contains carbon and is in constant contact with carbon dioxide, it never suddenly bursts into flames. The reason for this is that the carbon-based molecul
e
s in living organisms and books have stable structures, and in the absence of new energy (i.e., heat) from outside, they cannot break those bonds and suddenly combust. New energy arriving from the outside in such a way as to destabilize the structure in q
uestion is called "activation energy." The activation energy needed to impair the stable structure we are discussing here\emdash in other words for this book to ignite\emdash 
is a burning match. For the molecules in the watery solution inside the cell, that heat energy i
s released as a result of the collisions of molecules around them.31 Enzymes are responsible for reducing the considerable energy released during these collisions. 
\par In order to measure the speed of enzymes' activity, biochemists calculate the number of sub
strates an enzyme sets into reaction in the course of a second. This is known as the enzyme's turnover number, and this number varies for every individual enzyme. Many enzymes have turnover numbers in the tens or even hundreds; a few even have turnover nu
mbers expressed in thousands. 
\par One example is carbonic anhydrase. Nearly half the carbon dioxide produced by tissues is carried in a dissolved state to the lungs via the bloodstream. For this process, the level of carbon dioxide solution in the liquid envir
onment is rather high for which reason carbonic anhydrase catalyses the system, speeding it up by 10 million times, setting 600,000 water molecules and an equal number of carbon dioxide molecules into reaction every second. In other words, the enzyme ente
rs into a reaction every 2 microseconds\emdash 
a truly astonishing speed. To make this more comprehensible (and dramatic!), if you expanded a second out to the length of a whole year, a microsecond would last the same amount of time as a soft-drink commercial.32
\par T
he breaking down of a molecule, the digestion of a foodstuff, or the elimination of a waste product is due to the enzymes that function every instant, non-stop, by Allah's leave. As you shall shortly see, the working of special digestive enzymes permits f
o
od to be digested in the stomach and intestines. The process of human digestion lasts between three and six hours, depending on the particular food involved. Were it not for enzymes, however, it would take you more than 30 years to digest a single meal!33
 
To make this enormity clearer, just 30 grams of pepsin, one of the chief elements in digestion, can digest 2 tons of egg white.34 Were it not for enzymes, you would need years to digest even a single egg; and a normally five-second reaction might last up 
to 1,585 years. For example, it would take you 115,000 years to read this page!35
\par Regarding this amazing speed of enzymes, the late evolutionist Carl Sagan gave the following description: 
\par A living cell is a marvel of detailed and complex architecture. Seen
 through a microscope there is an appearance of almost frantic activity. On a deeper level it is known that molecules are being synthesized at an enormous rate. Almost any enzyme catalyzes the synthesis of more than 100 other molecules per second. In ten 
m
inutes, a sizeable fraction of total mass of a metabolizing bacterial cell has been synthesized. The information content of a simple cell had been estimated as around 1012 bits, comparable to about a hundred million pages of the Encyclopedia Britannica.36

\par As you can see, a single cell containing more information than an Encyclopaedia Britannica consisting of some 100 million pages, is produced in 10 minutes, by the leave and under the supervision of Allah. The enzymes created flawlessly by Allah make this 
production possible.
\par Every enzyme accelerates reactions at different speeds. Actually, a major miracle lies in the information compressed into just that one sentence. Some of the body's reactions need to take place more quickly than others. With the help of
 catalyzers, for example, some reactions may last just one second. In the absence of catalyzing enzymes, this reaction would take 108 seconds, or approximately 3 years. In the presence of an enzyme, however, some reactions may take 10 minutes to achieve e
quilibrium. This is a relatively slow-working reaction in the world of enzymes, but in the absence of a catalyst, it would take 109 minutes to achieve equilibrium\emdash a number of roughly 2,000 years.37
\par In the world of enzymes, the speed required for reactions t
hat need to take place so quickly might have a damaging effect on reactions that need to take place relatively slowly. The enzyme that copies DNA, for example, cannot work any faster, while those enzymes that break down toxic substances in the body must n
o
t slow down at all. Also, some enzymes give off hydrogen peroxide as a byproduct of their reactions. And as we know, this is a combustive substance, powerful enough to dissolve and destroy all the organs in the human body. That such a dangerous substance 
emerges as the byproduct of cell metabolism is astonishing, but also potentially hazardous. For that reason, hydrogen peroxide needs to be eliminated before it can damage any of the body's tissues. 
\par Therefore, an important precaution has been taken for th
e body. The enzymes that produce hydrogen peroxide are kept inside special organelles known as peroxisomes. These organelles contain a high level of the enzyme catalase, which breaks down the hydrogen peroxide before it can spread to body tissues.38 This 
e
nzyme can break down up to 5 million hydrogen peroxide molecules a minute, turn them into harmless water and oxygen. The activation energy required for this is 18,000 calories per molecule. If the enzyme catalase did not undertake this function, and if th
e iron atom attempted the task by itself, it would take some 300 years to break down a single hydrogen peroxide molecule.39 
\par In order to break down 5 million hydrogen peroxide molecules, an activation energy of 5,000,000 x 18,000 = 90,000,000,000 calories w
ould be necessary. Not all the food consumed and all the energy released by all the living things on Earth would be enough to provide that level of energy.40
\par Duane T. Gish expresses the importance of the enzyme catalase and how it could not have come into being by chance:
\par There could be no selection of any kind in an inanimate environment. For example, hydrogen peroxide, highly toxic to living cells, is a metabolic product of cellular activity. We therefore possess an incredibly efficient enzyme for catalyz
ing the breakdown of hydrogen peroxide. This enzyme, catalase, has a turnover rate of several billion per minute. Because of the high toxicity of hydrogen peroxide, our cells require an exceedingly efficient enzyme to catalyze its decomposition. We certai
nly couldn't survive without this enzyme.41
\par But what would happen if enzymes could not accelerate reactions that quickly? Would it be enough for them to carry out in, say, 100 years a reaction that in their absence would last 10,000 years in their absence? 
Would they be of any use to us if they performed their tasks in 10 years instead of a century? Leaving aside years, months and hours, could we stay alive if a single reaction lasted just 10 minutes? 
\par In fact, an interruption of just a millisecond\emdash let alone one of 10 minutes' duration\emdash 
in the phase of the catalysis would be enough to impede the function in question. For example, if the enzyme catalase operated at the speed of the DNA polymerase enzyme, this would let all the hydrogen peroxide molecules escape
 to spread to the nearby cells, thus leading to their death.
\par The enormous time difference involved between the absence and presence of enzymes makes clear just what an important task these crucial proteins undertake. This phenomenon is far too extraordinar
y to permit any hint of coincidence. Indeed, it is even impossible for even a conscious human being to design and implement so complex a system. 
\par A great many other details need to be considered here. How is it that every enzyme has a different accelerativ
e force? How do enzymes know that they must carry out every reaction at a different speed? It is impossible for enzymes to know on their own, what purpose a given reaction serves and determine how quickly they need to accelerate it, and equally impossible
 
for them to communicate that speed to other enzymes. It is wholly impossible for them to acquire all these characteristics by chance. Coincidence is supposed to be an event that takes place unconsciously and due to random influences, and any chance impact
 on a structural unit as complex as the cell will cause it to stop working and thus, to the death of the cell. Therefore, all the systems within the cell are controlled, just like the enzyme system\emdash 
but that control does not lie with the cell itself nor with the organelles inside it. 
\par There is only one explanation for the apparently conscious processes that are carried out in this microscopic system composed of unconscious atoms. If all of these literally know what they need to do, never make a mistake in the
ir work, and maintain that same perfection in all humans from one generation to the next, then they exhibit the intelligence and flawlessness manifested in them. That intelligence and perfection obviously belong to Allah, their Creator. Since Allah wills 
e
nzymes to keep working inside the human body in such a perfect manner, and for each to function with different molecules and to engage in constant activity to keep humans alive, these molecules can successfully perform processes that require consciousness
. Enzymes are all blessings from Allah, the Creator of all the entities on Earth, human beings, and the universe they inhabit\emdash in short, of everything. 
\par Allah acquaints us with His creative artistry through all the perfection on Earth and through His verses. One of our Lord's verses reads: 
\par }{\b\f0\fs22\insrsid11673661 
\par }{\b\f0\fs22\insrsid16546484\charrsid6367735 Allah is He Who raised up the heavens without any support\emdash you can see that\emdash 
and then established Himself firmly on the Throne. He made the Sun and Moon subservient, each running for a specified term. He directs the whole af
fair. He makes the signs clear so that hopefully you will be certain about the meeting with your Lord. (Surat ar-Ra\lquote d: 2)
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid16546484\charrsid5184933 
\par }{\b\f0\fs28\insrsid16546484\charrsid6367735 An Important Discovery }{\b\f0\fs28\insrsid6367735 
\par }{\b\f0\fs28\insrsid16546484\charrsid6367735 Regarding Enzyme Speed
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid16546484\charrsid5184933 One of the most striking pieces of research into the speed of enzymes was carried out b
y Richard Wolfenden, a professor of biochemistry, biophysics and chemistry at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill and also a member of National Academy of Sciences. A statement he issued in 1998 helps us obtain a better understanding of the ex
traordinary speed possessed by enzymes. In his earlier research, Prof. Wolfenden calculated that in water containing no enzymes\emdash in other words, uncatalyzed water\emdash 
the biological transformation essential in the formation of the fundamental building blocks of 
DNA and RNA would take 78 million years. But his subsequent discovery was even more astonishing. In his own words: "Now we've found one that's 10,000 times slower than that . . . Its half-time\emdash the time it takes for half the substance to be consumed
\emdash is 1 trillion years, 100 times longer than the lifetime of the universe. Enzymes can make this reaction happen in 10 milliseconds."42
\par Wolfenden published this discovery, made together with Chetan Lad and Nicholas H. Williams from Sheffield University in England, on the National Academy of Sciences website on 29 April 1998. 
\par The enzyme that attracted Wolfenden's attention was phosphatase. The catalytic power of phosphatase increased the speed of reaction in water of a chemical group known as phosphate monoesters to
 an extraordinary degree. The phosphatase enzymes acting on these monoesters regulated the molecular cross-talk within cells and the cell signaling pathways. Wolfenden sets out the importance of esters as follows: 
\par We have esters floating around in our cel
ls with all kinds of functions. Every aspect of cell signaling follows the action of the type of phosphatase enzyme that breaks down phosphate monoesters. Other phosphatases highlighted in the study for their catalytic power help mobilize carbohydrates fr
om animal starch and play a role in transmission of hormonal signals.43
\par Wolfenden went on to express his surprise in the face of this discovery saying that the enzymes they studied in this report were fascinating for they exceeded all other known enzymes in
 their power as catalysts and that they had only begun to understand how to speed up reactions with chemical catalysts, and no one had even come within shouting distance of producing their catalytic power.
\par The reaction that would take 1 trillion years in the absence of enzymes made Wolfenden, himself an evolutionist, appreciate their astounding quality. This number achieved is an incomprehensible time period. As Wolfenden explained:
\par This number puts us way beyond the known universe in terms of slowness. [The enzyme reaction] is 21 orders of magnitude faster than the uncatalyzed case. And the largest we knew about previously was 18. We've approached scales than nobody can grasp.44

\par If a protein\emdash a combination of several amino acids\emdash can accelerate a reaction tha
t would last 1 trillion years into just a few milliseconds, then its significance is truly extraordinary. If everyone in the world cannot achieve something that a single protein manages, much less fully understand how this comes about, then there is a per
fection here that they must accept. Only Allah has the power to create this perfection. 
\par In one verse, Allah tells us that He has created all things within an order: 
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid6367735 
\par }{\b\f0\fs22\insrsid16546484\charrsid6367735 He to Whom the kingdom of the heavens and the Earth belongs. He does not have a son and He has no partner in the Kingdom. He created everything and determined it most exactly. (Surat al-Furqan: 2)
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid6367735 
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid16546484\charrsid5184933 In another verse, He informs us that all things are under His control: 
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid6367735 
\par }{\b\f0\fs22\insrsid16546484\charrsid6367735 [Hud said,] "I have put my trust in Allah, my Lord and your Lord. There is no creature He does not hold by the forelock. My Lord is on a Straight Path." (Surah Hud: 56) 
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid6367735 
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid16546484\charrsid5184933 Allah is He Who creates all entities, Who gives them the most perfect form and keeps them constantly under His control. Allah has endowed them with amazing feature
s and matchless forms. Those who ignore this fact have no other alternative explanation to offer, however. To claim that these things are all a matter of chance, or to seek to portray them as miracles of so-called evolution, will not alter this truth in t
h
e slightest. Those who make such claims are clearly aware of the extraordinary state of affairs that confronts them. Chance cannot give rise to a living thing, nor can it give rise to a single living cell, a single enzyme within that cell, nor the chain r
eaction carried out by that enzyme. Allah creates all of these, and the work of each one displays His greatness and the perfection in His creations.
\par 
\par }{\b\f0\fs28\insrsid16546484\charrsid6367735 Enzymes Are Different from Hormones, }{\b\f0\fs28\insrsid6367735 
\par }{\b\f0\fs28\insrsid16546484\charrsid6367735 Despite Having Similar Structures
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid16546484\charrsid5184933 Both enzymes and hormones are protei
ns, both encoded by DNA. Both fit their targets like a key fits a lock, and their shapes are of great importance in terms of their functions. However, hormones are informational molecules, manufactured in various regions of the body and forwarded to other
 
regions by being released into the bloodstream. In this way, they signal for events to take place in far distant parts of the body. Growth hormone, for instance, sends out the necessary signals for cell division and bone growth. It has its effect only on 
cells that have proper receptors, or that have docking stations on their surfaces. Enzymes, on the other hand, are catalysts. They arrange for chemical reactions to be accelerated so that metabolism can take place at a useful rate.45
\par Hormones are very simil
ar, though unlike enzymes, they do not constantly enter into and exit from chemical reactions. In addition, hormones have long-term effects on the organs they reach via the bloodstream. For example, if you do become hungry or thirsty while reading this bo
o
k, these sensations are completely hormonal in origin. Hormones released from specific regions of the body reach the brain and begin setting up a sensation of hunger, making you want to eat. (For detailed information, see Harun Yahya, The Miracle of Hormo
nes.)
\par What distinguishes these two proteins, which are almost identical in their structure and working conditions? Although they have the same characteristics and similar geometrical shapes, proteins manufactured in the body suddenly begin working as either
 enzymes or hormones. The body has no conscious apparatus to determine that one should act as a catalyst while the other should transmit messages. All the other organs in the body are no different from protein and fats. It is impossible for them to have i
n
telligence, be able to plan and share labor, identify missing components in the metabolism and to engage in production accordingly. It is Almighty Allah Who tells the proteins produced what to do, how to behave and how to establish communications with one
 
another. It is He Who fully knows the body He has created, what takes place in it and the reasons behind its operations. He determines the body's needs and how and where these will be satisfied. He inspires each with its own task and tells each one how to
 behave. Every structure in the body behaves accordingly. It is His inspirational direction that makes enzymes different from hormones.
\par 
\par Allah creates whatsoever He wishes out of nothing. Our Lord has revealed this fact in a verse: 
\par }{\b\f0\fs22\insrsid16546484\charrsid6367735 It is He Who created the
 heavens and the Earth with truth. The day He says "Be!" it is. His speech is Truth. The Kingdom will be His on the Day the Trumpet is blown, the Knower of the Unseen and the Visible. He is the All-Wise, the All-Aware. (Surat al-An\lquote am: 73)
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid16546484\charrsid5184933 
\par }{\b\f0\fs28\insrsid16546484\charrsid6367735 Enzymes Are Constantly }{\b\f0\fs28\insrsid6367735 
\par }{\b\f0\fs28\insrsid16546484\charrsid6367735 at Work in Our Bodies
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid16546484\charrsid5184933 The human body is known to contain more than 2,000 enzymes.46 Thanks to them, we can remain alive. The way we eat, breathe, hear sounds, see what is going on around us\emdash 
in short, all the systems in our bodies function by way of
 enzymes. When you remove one enzyme from the system, the functions it performs are also eliminated. Nothing else can perform the tasks carried out by these proteins too small to be seen by the naked eye.
\par So exactly what is it that enzymes do, whose presence is so essential to the functions taking place in your own body and to the survival of other living things around you?
\par If you leave a green banana on the windowsill for a few days, it will turn sweet and yellow. This process, which we call maturation, takes place thanks to enzymes.
\par A dog buries a bone. When it digs it up again, that bone\emdash which was previously very hard\emdash has become softer and has assumed an edible texture. This too happens thanks to enzymes.
\par If you place green tomatoes that are still on their stems under the Sun, shortly afterwards they turn red. This happens thanks to enzymes being set in motion by the Sun's light and heat.
\par Seeds cannot sprout in the absence of enzymes. Fruit cannot mature, leaves cannot change color and we ourselves cannot come into being.47 In short, enzymes are one of the reasons why, by Allah's choosing, living things achieve life.
\par Enzymes are responsible for all the chemical processes that take place in all our bodies' systems, and are important components of the immune 
system as well. We depend on enzymes in order to be able to eat and digest, just as we do in order to see, feel, hear, breathe and move. Enzymes play a leading role in blood coagulation, the functioning of the heart and circulatory system, the function of
 the liver and kidneys, the expulsion of toxic substances, the functioning of the brain, the distribution of hormones throughout the body, and in your being able to think and even dream. 
\par Enzymes convert the food you eat into small molecules that can enter 
your cells. These digested substances, spread throughout the entire body by entering the bloodstream, are transmitted to the cells by passing through their membranes. Thanks to enzymes, these ready-made components are converted into muscles, bones, nerves
 and secretory glands. Substances not used immediately are stored for future use, thanks to enzymes and the liver working together.
\par The transportation of foodstuffs in the body depends entirely upon enzymes. If they did not fully perform their tasks, you wo
uld suffer memory loss, be unable to think properly and would start suffering fatigue, because your brain would receive insufficient nutrients.48 However, such a problem never arises because under normal conditions, enzymes never neglect their duties, nev
er neglect to evaluate the foodstuffs entering your body. They are aware of the importance of every nutrient, using every ingredient and wasting nothing.
\par Enzymes are constantly active inside the cells, breaking down, synthesizing and regulating. The divisio
n of labor among them is truly amazing. One enzyme uses phosphorus for bone building; another enables blood to clot, while still another bonds iron to red blood cells. Some enzymes carry out oxidation, combining other substances together with oxygen. Mean
w
hile, other enzymes eliminate carbon dioxide from the lungs; while still others are responsible for converting protein into fat, or sugar or carbohydrate into fat.49 The sperm cell has special enzymes that permit it to pierce the egg. Enzymes in the immun
e system take constant action against waste products and toxins in the blood and tissues.50
\par Still other enzymes carry out such chemical processes as breaking down sugar into carbon dioxide and water in a matter of seconds, hundreds or even thousands of times, non-stop throughout the entire course of your life.
\par An average of 40 separate reactions take place inside the cell every second, all by means of enzymes. But once they have accelerated reactions and discharged their duties, enzymes leave without themsel
ves undergoing any changes and continue taking part in other reactions, and thus maintain a constant state of employment. This is a most important economy measure, since there is no need for enzymes to be manufactured constantly. They maintain their vario
us stocks inside the body and continue to carry out their duties.
\par Enzymes heal wounds and cure infections.51 They also clear away the dead cells that are casualties in the immune system's war against microbes. Once the war is over, destroyed microbes, antib
ody-microbe compounds and toxins are all eliminated as the result of the scrupulous activity of enzymes. If these wastes are not expelled from the body, they will cause congestion of the arteries. 
\par Enzymes also seem aware of situations in which precautions
 need to be taken and know how to behave during emergencies. For example, animals that hibernate cannot use food to meet their energy requirements, so their bodies' enzymes behave with deliberation. They begin converting stored fats in the body into carbo
hydrates that will give off energy52\emdash 
an action they do not take at other times. They make use of this privilege when the body cannot consume nutrients, and Allah inspires in them the knowledge of when they need to do so. Enzymes in the human body have also 
been created in such a way as to take relevant precautionary measures when necessary. For example, if someone eats nothing for a long time, enzymes inside the body convert fats into carbohydrates. This process is a precaution that enzymes take to preserve
 
our bodies, and you are never even aware of the methods they employ to keep your body alive and healthy. These miraculous substances constantly perform countless tasks and precautionary measures in order to keep you alive, possessing abilities that transc
end any human intelligence. 
\par It is Almighty Allah Who equips them with all these abilities. Allah calls upon people to reflect upon these facts they witness. Not to forget the blessings bestowed by Allah and to think deeply about these miraculous phenomena 
they see are some of human beings' most important responsibilities. Allah tells us of this in a verse: 
\par }{\b\f0\fs22\insrsid16546484\charrsid6367735 Everything in the heavens and the earth belongs to Allah. He knows what you are engaged upon. On the Day when they are returned to Him, He will inform t
hem of what they did. Allah has knowledge of all things. (Surat an-Nur: 64)
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid16546484\charrsid5184933 
\par }{\b\f0\fs28\insrsid16546484\charrsid6367735 Enzymes' Working Conditions
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid16546484\charrsid5184933 Specific enzymes are charged with every chemical reaction in the body. Since enzymes do not perform one another's work, a special enzyme charged with a
 specific duty has to be present on site. If enzymes were used up and not renewed, there would be no other enzymes to replace them. As already mentioned, reactions also depend upon one another, rather like dominoes. If one reaction fails to occur because 
o
f the lack of an enzyme, then the whole chain will come to a halt. For example, the absence of even a single enzyme that supervises the new chain of DNA being copied will lead to faulty copying. Subsequent enzymes will be unable to perform their own funct
ions, producing flawed or functionless DNA in the body. 
\par Enzymes are able to operate only within a specific pH level and temperature\emdash generally between 30 and 70 degrees Centigrade, which is known as "optimum temperature."53 This is a rather special temperat
ure range, because the average internal temperature of the human body is 36.5 degrees C, an ideal level for human enzymes to work. Indeed, because of the sensitive conditions under which some enzymes work, they demand a much narrower temperature range. Th
e
refore, the slightest change in body temperature can affect the functioning of these enzymes. When the body feels freezing cold or has high fever, the rate at which enzymes work declines, along with the number of processes they can perform. Some enzymes e
ven die. (See Harun Yahya, The Miracle of the Immune System.)
\par When the temperature rises by as much as 10oC, reaction speed doubles. To put that another way, increase in reaction speed is directly proportional to temperature. After this considerable rise, h
owever, reaction speed suddenly slows to a standstill. Although reaction speeds show a sudden initial increase, this temperature is clearly not productive in terms of enzymes' working conditions. Although enzymes grow ineffective a little above optimum te
m
perature, they can once again become effective when the temperature falls. But if that high temperature persists or even rises a little further, enzymes lose all their effectiveness, because they have a tertiary structure and at high temperatures, they lo
se that helical three-dimensional structure. The enzyme structure breaks down, their former order is destroyed, and as a result, they cease to function.
\par Enzymes also become functionless at low temperatures, but cold does not damage their structure. Efficacy
 is restored once the temperature returns to earlier levels. The frozen food industry makes considerable use of this fact.54 Foods are preserved for long periods by freezing, and when thawed, they regain much of their former nutritional value, thanks to t
he enzymes being reactivated. 
\par Also important for enzymes, in addition to temperature, is the body's pH level. pH stands for "potential hydrogen," showing the concentration of hydrogen ions in a region or a solution. Concentration values can range between 
1 and 14. A level of 7 indicates the presence of water and describes a neutral environment. Numbers higher than 7 indicate an alkaline environment, and numbers lower than 7 show that it is acidic. This distinction is of great importance for reactions taki
ng place in a fluid environment, because while some molecules dissolve in water, others are unaffected by it and can dissolve only in acid. 
\par Enzymes generally operate within a specific pH range, known as "optimum pH." All enzymes need an average pH level in order to be able to work, and some operate within a particular pH level appropriate to their own working conditions. For instance, pepsin
\emdash which breaks down proteins in the stomach\emdash can work best only at a acidic pH of 2. Trypsin, secreted by the pancreas a
nd which plays a role in protein digestion, works most efficiently at a pH of 8.5. But a powerfully acidic or alkaline environment will damage most enzyme's structure.55
\par Although enzymes demand highly sensitive working conditions, the living body possesses
 the ideal properties for these molecules to function. The fact that every one of the 2,000 types of enzymes in a living body can work in a manner appropriate to its environment shows that both body and the enzymes have been specially created. It is Allah
 
Who creates the human body, Who determines the different conditions that apply in each of the body's different structures and Who creates enzymes accordingly. With His infinite knowledge, Allah has created all the conditions necessary for a human being to
 stay alive. It is impossible for these many enzymes to have come about or have become mutually compatible as the result of chance.
\par His sublime artistry is revealed in verses: 
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid6367735 
\par }{\b\f0\fs22\insrsid16546484\charrsid6367735 He Who created the seven heavens in layers. You will not find any flaw in the creation of the All-Merciful. Look again\emdash 
do you see any gaps? Then look again and again. Your sight will return to you dazzled and exhausted! (Surat al-Mulk: 3-4)
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid16546484\charrsid5184933 
\par }\pard \qc \fi567\li0\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid6367735 {\f0\fs22\insrsid6367735 \page }{\b\f0\fs36\insrsid16546484\charrsid6367735 Types of Enzymes
\par }\pard \qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid5184933 {\f0\fs22\insrsid6367735 
\par 
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid16546484\charrsid5184933 There are enzymes everywhere in your body, but each one has to perform the
 task set out for it. Different enzymes work in different forms, at different speeds and with different substrates, which accounts for their variety.
\par Enzymes are generally classified according to the basic functions they perform. Enzymes that maintain the 
body's entire metabolism, from the respiratory system to the nervous system, are known as metabolic enzymes. Those groups known as food enzymes are those we absorb together with the foods we eat. The third enzyme group is known as digestive enzymes. 

\par 
\par }{\b\f0\fs28\insrsid16546484\charrsid6367735 Metabolic Enzymes
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid16546484\charrsid5184933 
Foodstuffs are broken down and digested, following which countless metabolic processes take place. Metabolism is the name given to the magnificent phenomena taking place in an organism's cells and controlled by enzymes, which direct every met
abolic process in the body, bringing about energy and substance production. 
\par ATP production and protein synthesis are two major metabolic reactions. Metabolic enzymes are responsible for taking over and performing all these processes. 
\par With the exception of reproductive cells\emdash which represent only 0.1% of the body's weight\emdash 
your body is completely different from what it was 12 years before. Over those dozen years, all the cells in your body have been renewed. Your liver is not the liver it once was. In the sa
me way that the blood cells in your circulatory system are not the same ones that existed 10 years ago, neither are the veins through which they flow. Your organs have completely changed and have been renewed, with entirely new cells and molecules. This i
s of course an astonishing phenomenon. 
\par The most rapid renewal takes place in the epidermis. Every three months, you are given a new skin. The rest of your organs then follow. Over the years, your lungs, kidneys, stomach and all your other organs change\emdash eve
n your eyes that now read these lines. The slowest changes take place in the bone and cartilage. It takes some 10 years for them to change\emdash yet these, too, are finally renewed.
\par For that reason, there is a constant need for construction in the body. And of t
he workers engaged in the construction of your body, the most important are the metabolic enzymes. They take in 45 essential nutrients, and convert them into muscles, nerves, bones, blood and organs. At a basic level, they provide the fuel that keeps the 
c
ells alive. They enter all the reactions essential for the cell to fulfill its own functions and finish them in a very short space of time. They operate in all vital matters, such as the DNA replication, ATP energy storage, nutrient entry into cells and w
aste products' exits, and the transmission of electrical signals along the nerves from your sense organs. 
\par Metabolic enzymes are a great blessing bestowed on us by our Lord, important treasuries we enjoy from the moment we are born. They are at work from th
e moment our lives begin, ready to perform countless functions. These same enzymes will repeat the same tasks time and time again, never stopping. Yet they also have their own life spans. Enzymes decline in number as we grow older. "Old age" is another te
r
m for the decrease in the number of enzymes in the body, and therefore they are unable to function as efficiently as before. Old age is actually an indication not of how much a person has lived, but whether or not the tissues in the body are fully functio
ning. These tissues depend on the level of enzymes charged with the metabolism of every cell. In other words, the more numerous and functional the enzymes, the more youthful a person's metabolism.56
\par Of course, the functioning of all these systems and the ma
intenance of this metabolic order are totally beyond your control. Even if people are young and enjoy a balanced diet, there is nothing they can do to keep their bodies alive if their enzymes do not perform the requisite functions. Cells will continue to 
d
ie, but will not be renewed, and the organs will increasingly lose their capacity to function. Enzymes are entities that keep one alive. However, do not forget that enzymes are all proteins with no intelligence or consciousness. What we refer to as "metab
o
lism" is nothing more than the functioning of these proteins. There is no point in your trusting in these entities to keep you alive, and it is totally irrational to think that these entities were charged with keeping people alive by chance. We need to re
alize that it is Allah Who keeps human beings alive. Allah has created all the systems belonging to a human, inspires them to carry out their functions at every moment, creates them at every moment and keeps them under His control at all times. 
\par If a system of yours is interrupted, all you can do is to take the necessary precautions, turn to Allah and seek His assistance. It is Allah, Who keeps you alive, Who will help you. Allah has revealed this in a verse: 
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid6367735 
\par }{\b\f0\fs22\insrsid16546484\charrsid6367735 Allah is He to Whom the kingdom of the heavens and earth belongs. He gives life and causes to die. You have no protector or helper besides Allah. (Surat at-Tawba: 116)
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid16546484\charrsid5184933 
\par }{\b\f0\fs28\insrsid16546484\charrsid6367735 Food Enzymes
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid16546484\charrsid5184933 Every bite you eat contains important building blocks to be used in the construction of your body. Food that you eat enters with an even more important factor that helps digest the food itself: its own enzymes.

\par Food enzymes are present in every food we can encounter anywhere on Earth, but they are not resistant to heat. When you cook food, you lose all the enzymes it contains
. However, if you eat a raw food, its own enzymes will digest 75% of it. Digestion of any food by its own enzymes makes a very important contribution to the body, since your system need not become fatigued by manufacturing extra enzymes, and it has no nee
d to slow down the production of metabolic enzymes, so essential to the cells, in order to produce digestive enzymes. 
\par Excellent examples of the enzymes constantly active in foods are those present in fruit. In its green state, a banana is 20% starch. When 
left in a warm place for a while, however, the enzyme amylase converts that 20% starch to 20% sugar. Around a quarter of that sugar is glucose, which the body now has no need to digest.57 Thanks to the enzymes it possesses, fruit completes a major task th
at is usually carried out in the body before it's even consumed. 
\par Like the banana cited in this example, every fruit or vegetable eaten without being cooked conveys various nutritional benefits without putting the body to any trouble. When you eat a banana,
 its own enzymes offer it already prepared for your cells by breaking it down\emdash together with the digestion process that begins in the mouth\emdash 
into small components that can be utilized by your metabolic enzymes, which then assimilate them into the body by converting them into the structural materials needed for cells and organelles. 
\par The enzymes concealed in foodstuffs are able to digest only the particular food in question. For example, the amylase in bananas works only on the banana starch. This enzyme cann
ot digest the starch in a potato. After you eat a banana, enzymes in the banana cannot help you digest a slice of cooked meat. Nor can these enzymes add any extra enzymes to the body. Their task comes to an end with the digestion of the food in question. 
A
n enzyme that enters the body along with food recognizes the food it is going to digest, despite its being broken up in the mouth, and sets itself to digesting it. Given these properties, enzyme molecules literally behave with intelligence. Of course an i
nanimate molecule cannot really exhibit intelligence\emdash the wisdom we see in the functions that enzymes perform actually belongs to Almighty Allah, Who creates them and places them at the service of living things. 
\par When you eat a cooked food that has lost all 
its enzymes, the whole job of digestion falls to those enzymes at the ready in your body. The digestive organs, the pancreas in particular, go into extreme production mode to ensure the digestion of food that has entered the stomach by producing large qua
n
tities of enzymes. And this production may cause the production rate of metabolic enzymes to fall. This means that insufficient production can be made for the organs to function, renew themselves, and fight disease. Thus the body expends on digesting food
s the energy it should use for its own development and defenses. 
\par One of the first researchers into the importance of enzymes in human nutrition, Dr. Edward Howell, founder of the National Enzyme Company, has said this:
\par They are the most precious asset we possess and we should welcome outside enzyme help. If we depend solely upon the enzymes we inherit, they will be used up just like inherited money that is not supplemented by a steady income.58
\par By endowing foods with enzymes, Allah has bestowed a most impor
tant blessing on us. The way that these enzymes know what they must do as soon as they enter the body, adapt to a mechanism that is completely foreign to them and immediately begin to process the food they need to digest is literally miraculous. These enz
y
mes literally behave in a conscious manner and know that they should go into action the moment the food is broken down. They neither destroy it by acting prematurely, nor go into action hours after it has entered the mouth. They begin working at just the 
r
ight moment and conclude the whole enterprise at great speed. With the help of these molecules, every fruit you eat is turned into building blocks with which the body can renew itself. Thus it is that your eyes continue to see, your legs to move and your 
organs to function. 
\par Remember, these unconscious molecules are entities created by Allah and never go wrong because they act under His direction. They act under the infinite intelligence of Allah and have bowed their heads to Him. Allah tells us of this in another verse:

\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid6367735 
\par }{\b\f0\fs22\insrsid16546484\charrsid6367735 [Hud said,] "I have put my trust in Allah, my Lord and your Lord. There is no creature He does not hold by the forelock. My Lord is on a Straight Path." (Surah Hud: 56)
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid16546484\charrsid5184933 
\par }{\b\f0\fs28\insrsid16546484\charrsid6367735 Digestive Enzymes
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid16546484\charrsid5184933 Certain enzymes have been charged with digestion in
 the body. Lipase breaks down fats, protease breaks down proteins, cellulase breaks down fiber, amylase breaks down starch, lactase breaks down dairy, sucrase breaks down sugars, and maltase breaks down grains. The presence of digestive enzymes is of grea
t
 importance to metabolic enzymes, because digestion being undertaken by a special enzyme group prevents the metabolism from fatigue. As long as digestive enzymes are present, our bodies' metabolic enzymes can carry out their own tasks alone and need not b
ecome involved in such a complex and detailed process as digestion. 
\par For that reason a glorious mechanism operates constantly inside the human body. Whenever you see or smell something to eat, or even if you only think about it, your body triggers the produ
ction of digestive enzymes. These stimuli are of great importance, helping ready your body to deal with food before you have even taken a bite. 
\par The process of digestion begins in the mouth, immediately after the food has been chewed. Saliva contains speci
al enzymes, and as soon as they come into contact with food, they start breaking it down. We break down the exterior walls of foods through the chewing process. If the food is raw, the enzymes it contains are released and initiate the digestion process. C
a
rbohydrates begin to be digested in the mouth, when the amylase in saliva breaks the molecular bonds in starch and adds to them the water molecules in saliva. The reason why you feel an increasingly sweet taste when you chew a piece of bread is that the e
nzymes in your saliva are converting the starch it contains into sugar. 
\par For digestion in the mouth to take place, the necessary pH value is between 6.0 and 7.4, and the enzyme amylase functions best in that pH range. The stomach, on the other hand, is a highly acidic environment, with a pH level of between 1.0 and 3.5\emdash 
which acidic conditions halt the activity of amylase. For that reason, carbohydrate digestion does not take place in the stomach.
\par The process of digestion begins in the mouth, then continues in the stomach and the intestines, all of which are rather different from one another in their working conditions. They therefore harbor appropriately different enzymes.
\par 
\par }{\b\f0\fs28\insrsid16546484\charrsid6367735 Special Enzymes in the Stomach
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid16546484\charrsid5184933 Along the digestive route that starts with the mouth, t
he next major station is the stomach. As with all organs, the stomach contains enzymes that perform special functions. Their very presence in the rather harsh environment of the stomach, which dissolves and breaks down everything that enters it, is of cou
rse very surprising. Yet in any case these assistants are specially equipped for working in the stomach, and are another part of this great miracle inside the body. 
\par The stomach is a highly acidic environment, whose walls need to be protected against its ow
n acid. The digestive enzymes also need to be able to survive within it. The stomach meets both conditions. The internal lining of the stomach wall, covered in a mucous layer that comes into contact with food, contains three kinds of cells. One of these s
e
cretes hydrochloric acid (HCl), a very powerful acidic solution, strong enough even to dissolve stone. This powerful chemical also plays an important part in the digestive process by breaking down all proteins, particularly meat, entering the stomach, and
 
kills all microbes. Another important characteristic of this acid is that it sets into action pepsinogen, also present in the stomach and which breaks down proteins. Pepsinogen is not secreted when the stomach is empty. Yet when any food reaches the stoma
ch, pepsinogen is converted into the enzyme pepsin by an activator protein, literally as if someone had told it to, and breaks down the foodstuff there. 
\par How can we account for the way that pepsin initiates digestion by recognizing a piece of meat consistin
g of protein and fats, but does no harm to the stomach, which consists of basically the same protein and fats? Again, how are we to explain the way that hydrochloric acid does not dissolve the stomach itself and the helper enzyme? It is impossible under n
o
rmal conditions for an enzyme, an acid, molecules, messenger hormones or even the stomach itself to recognize acid's dangers, or the foods that need to be digested, and to take the relevant precautionary measures on a constant, error-free basis at specifi
c
 times of day. It is Allah Who makes this possible, ensuring that these processes take place uninterruptedly inside all the humans living on Earth, and Who ensures that the molecules receive their instructions, obey them and are compatible with one anothe
r. 
\par It is impossible for a molecule to be aware of another molecule by chance, for it to activate by chance, to be aware of dangers by chance and to take appropriate precautionary measures. Each one of these complex structures, literally in communication wi
th one another, cannot have emerged "out of nothing" by chance, nor have been assembled by means of a chain of unconscious events and begun their functions, again by chance. Anyone of reason and good conscience, who reflects honestly and is not unmoved by
 what he sees and knows, will immediately appreciate this obvious fact. The boundless nature of the blessings imparted by Allah is revealed in a verse: 
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid6367735 
\par }{\b\f0\fs22\insrsid16546484\charrsid6367735 Is He Who creates like him who does not create? So will you not pay heed? If you tried to number Allah's blessings, you could never count them. Allah is Ever-Forgiving, Most Merciful. (Surat an-Nahl: 17-18)

\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid16546484\charrsid5184933 Even more striking details are contained within the stomach's digestive processes. The stomach is lined with a perfect protective material. The sensitive
 goblet cells secrete this protective mucus, which works just like a protective layer, even before the acid and breaking-down enzymes are emitted. Despite this protective substance's extraordinary strength, the stomach still loses 1.5 million cells a day 
to the effects of acid and enzymes. The entire internal lining of the stomach is destroyed, but then renewed, every three days. 
\par The stomach might not have always renewed these naturally dying cells. This system is so tightly controlled that you are totally
 unaware of its ongoing intervention. New cells are always produced to replace those that die. Both the destruction of old cells and the production of new ones take place at Allah's choosing.
\par Ulcers are a reminder of the consequences of the absence of such
 a system. The disorder involves a failure to secrete protective mucus for one reason or another. Acid and enzymes begin damaging the stomach wall and blood begins leaking from the blood vessels beneath. The stomach wall now has an open sore. Until treate
d, the stomach's own secretions will continue to kill the stomach cells, and foodstuffs will not be digested. 
\par Following the release of protective mucus in the stomach, food reaches the upper portion of the stomach for digestion. No enzymes are secreted her
e. Raw food goes into this section of the stomach. After swallowing, digestion continues here with these food's own enzymes for half an hour to an hour. After that, pepsin, the stomach enzyme, takes over.
\par If the food has been cooked, it waits in this secti
on of the stomach for half an hour to an hour, with no enzymes breaking it down. Salivary enzyme breaks down carbohydrates, but protein and fat have to wait. These foods are subjected to a different process in the stomach than raw foods which already cont
a
in enzymes, because the body's metabolism must devote its attention to supplying more metabolic enzymes for the organs and tissues. In other words, another conscious choice is made inside the body. After being kept in this stomach region for a while, the 
food will start being broken down by gastric enzymes.59
\par The process of acid secretion in the stomach is controlled by the presence of food. In response to food's presence in the stomach, specific cells go into action, secreting a hormone known as gastrin in
to the bloodstream. It then emits a signal to the glands that secrete hydrochloric acid and thus stimulates secretion of gastric juice. 
\par The nervous system also has a role in the secretion of gastric juice, because the glands responsible are under the co
ntrol of the nervous system. So, the release of digestive fluids is controlled by both hormones and by the nervous system, which is why increased stress and high blood pressure may lead to the formation of ulcers. Indeed, that it is enough that we smell, 
taste or even think of food for the brain to send messages to the secretory glands in the stomach demonstrates the efficiency of the nervous system in the digestive process.60
\par Pepsin is the active enzyme that breaks down proteins in the stomach. The stomach
 wall cells produce this enzyme in an inactive form, known as pepsinogen. As already mentioned, hydrochloric acid converts pepsinogen into pepsin. The secretion of pepsinogen by the gastric secretory glands is at the same time controlled by the activities
 
of the hormone gastrin. The presence of food in the stomach, the secretion of gastrin, the production of hydrochloric acid and the conversion of pepsinogen into pepsin are all interconnected. Therefore, the entry of food into the stomach initiates a chain
 of highly complex stages.
\par Pepsin converts large protein molecules into small polypeptides, but each polypeptide molecule contains a large number of interconnected amino acids. The breaking down of these continues in the small intestine.61
\par There is a gate w
here the stomach opens into the intestine, whose presence is of great importance, because if the stomach were not separated from the intestine, it would entail the possibility of foods in the intestine being returned to the stomach, which would have a dam
aging impact on the stomach's own acidic environment. Enzymes in the intestine operate in a more neutral and alkaline environment, and these special enzymes would be impaired by the stomach's acidity and give rise to dangerous consequences.62 
\par Digestive enz
ymes have similar structures and functions, yet those that function in the intestine cannot adapt to the gastric environment, nor vice versa. This shows that every region, every tissue and every organ in the body is created with different properties; and 
that enzymes have also been equipped with features appropriate to the conditions in these separate environments.
\par 
\par }{\b\f0\fs28\insrsid16546484\charrsid6367735 Special Enzymes in the Intestine
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid16546484\charrsid5184933 The intestine has been specially created for the breaking down of foodstuffs. The chemical events that take place in the walls\emdash 
and the flawless system involved in breaking foodstuffs down into their smallest components and their subsequent distribution\emdash are truly amazing. Just about every square millimeter of the intestinal wall produces countless enzymes that sepa
rate proteins into different peptides and break these down into amino acids, carbohydrates into glucose and fats into fatty acids and glycerol. These enzymes are of very different kinds, with different functions and work at different speeds. An enzyme tha
t
 breaks down fruit sugar, or fructose, is very different from one that breaks down sugar in dairy products, or lactose, and yet another enzyme breaks down starch. Because, as we have already seen, enzymes have very sensitive working conditions, the temper
ature and pH here are maintained at the ideal levels for these enzymes to be manufactured and perform their separate functions.
\par Since the structure and mode of operation of the stomach and the intestine are completely different, enzymes able to function in 
an acidic environment must be present in the stomach, while ones able to work in an alkaline one in the intestines. Foods leaving the harsh conditions of the stomach encounter gentler ones in the small intestine. The partly digested food and gastric juice
s passing from the stomach must do no harm to the intestine. This is where the pancreatic juice comes into play.
\par 
\par As you shall shortly see in some detail, pancreatic juice and its special enzymes enter the duodenum by way of the pancreatic duct and make the
 pH level more alkaline. In the duodenum, enzymes enable fats to be broken down. The fat-dissolvers manufactured in the pancreas accelerate the digestion of foods by accumulating here. Pancreatic juice contains trypsin, a particularly powerful enzyme, whi
c
h enters the duodenum in an inactive form, trypsinogen. This is activated by an intestinal enzyme which is triggered solely in the presence of food, and turns into trypsin, which breaks down the peptide bonds of polypeptides into smaller peptide fragments
. Trypsin also breaks down large protein molecules that have not been affected by the pepsin in the stomach. 
\par Secretory glands in the duodenum walls also release other enzymes that separate peptide bonds. The bonds that form molecules are torn apart and the
 final products that emerge as the result of protein digestion are amino acids, the fundamental building blocks of all proteins. 
\par Fats ingested with food are also digested in the small intestine. However, they arrive in the form of small fat droplets. The 
enzyme lipase involved in fat digestion cannot act on fats when they remain in that state. This is where bile juice enters the equation. Bile is secreted by the liver and stored in the gall bladder, and contains no digestive enzymes. Bile salt present in 
t
he bile juice breaks down fats into smaller globules and prepare them to be digested by the enzyme lipase. Up to 90% of bile salt is absorbed as it passes through the lower region of the small intestine, and is then routed back to the liver to be used aga
in for digestion.
\par Once the bile juice has done its job, fat-digesting enzymes then have their turn. The enzyme lipase in the pancreatic juice acts on fats and converts them into fatty acids and glycerol. 
\par Throughout this process, hundreds of precautionary s
teps are taken. Foods arriving from the stomach must not carry the stomach's acidity with them into the small intestine. Specific enzymes for digesting still-undigested foodstuffs also need to be present; and the environment needs to be regulated so as to
 make all this possible. Chemical messengers need to act accordingly, and helper molecules need to be on hand. It is the pancreas, a very special organ, that secretes the particular juice for all of these tasks. 
\par 
\par }{\b\f0\fs28\insrsid16546484\charrsid6367735 The Pancreas: }{\b\f0\fs28\insrsid6367735 
\par }{\b\f0\fs28\insrsid16546484\charrsid6367735 The Factory That Produces Digestive Enzymes
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid16546484\charrsid5184933 
The pancreas is a small organ, six inches in size and three ounces in weight. It is named the body's "hidden organ" because of its location concealed behind the stomach. It contains fine, interconnected tubes or vessels that come together in
 the form of a doorway opening into the duodenum, where pancreatic juice passes through, to play a life-saving role for the intestine.
\par Despite its small size, the pancreas performs a very important function in secreting digestive enzymes, which are transpo
rted to the digestive system in what is known as pancreatic juice. There are other moderating factors in this fluid, of which the pancreas produces up to 5 liters a day63\emdash very high level of production for a organ weighing just 3 ounces. 
\par The production of 
pancreatic juice is triggered when the duodenum encounters gastric juice. After leaving the stomach, foodstuffs have assumed a rather pulpy consistency and they first arrive at the duodenum. This mixture arriving from the stomach is powerfully acidic enou
gh to dissolve the thin, delicate interior of the duodenum. Yet this does not happen, because pancreatic juice is alkaline, neutralizing the acidity in question. Foodstuffs are thus able to pass into the small intestine without endangering it...
\par The product
ion of pancreatic juice is a controlled process. When you sit down at the dinner table, thousands of tiny saclike cavities, or acini, in the pancreas receive stimuli from the nervous system and begin producing pancreatic juice. However, the pancreas does 
not start working at full capacity until your food actually passes through the duodenum doorway. The more food arrives, the more enzyme that is secreted. 
\par The pancreas can also distinguish between the kinds of food we consume, and secretes different enzymes
 accordingly. For example, when you eat foods such as pasta or bread that are rich in carbohydrates, the pancreas secretes mainly a carbohydrate-digesting enzyme called amylase.64 
\par This mechanism is exceedingly sensitive, because enzymes must not be wasted
, and at the same time, the intestine must not accidentally digest its own walls. This entire system must produce adequate enzymes to keep a living body alive. Were this process under our conscious control, we would spend all our time calculating when, wh
ich, and how many enzymes needed to be produced and pondering about to make use of them. However, their production and operation are actually beyond our control and knowledge. Other structures\emdash again consisting of fat and proteins\emdash 
are charged with controllin
g enzyme production. Hormones specially manufactured in the intestinal wall, secretin and pancreozymin, take on the job of stimulating enzyme production. The hormone secretin stimulates the pancreas into secreting pancreatic juice, rich in the sodium bica
rbonate that neutralizes acid. The hormone pancreozymin stimulates the production of enzymes by the pancreas. 
\par When food passes from the stomach to the duodenum, secretin and pancreozymin are released into the bloodstream. Thanks to these hormones, the duod
enum is protected from the destructive effects of hydrochloric acid. By way of the bloodstream, secretin and pancreozymin reach the pancreas and signal it to produce sufficient quantities of fluid rich in water, bicarbonate and digestive enzymes, which wi
ll protect the duodenum. These secretions, as already mentioned, reach the duodenum through the pancreatic duct.
\par The organ that sets the hormones in motion is the stomach\emdash another organ consisting of fats and proteins. As its digestion continues, the stomach
 sends a message to the duodenum, as if it knew that the potentially dangerous foodstuffs are headed there next. It immediately begins secreting the needed hormones in question and releasing them into the bloodstream. At first glance, this would seem to b
e
 a risky business, because the blood travels through the entire body. Therefore, these hormones need to know where they must carry their signal. But in fact, they transmit their message to the pancreas alone, without stopping off at any other cells. As ev
idence of the infinite detail within His creative artistry, Allah has created the molecular structure of these hormones to interact only with receptor molecules on the membrane of the pancreatic cells. 
\par Two small molecules, quite unaware of one another's ex
istence in the human body, communicate with each other, knowing what purpose they serve, their objectives, properties and duties. They never see one another, and have no idea what the human anatomy looks like or how large it may be. They need to have grea
t
 intelligence and consciousness in order to communicate this way, to achieve a common objective. Of course, there is no point in looking for intelligence and consciousness in molecules with no eyes, ears or brain. The intelligence and consciousness appare
n
t in the miraculous tasks performed by these substances belong to Allah, Who created the human body from nothing. One of the reasons in creating this miraculous detail is for people to perceive and reflect on this great truth, reported in these terms in t
he Qur'an:}{\f0\fs22\insrsid16546484 
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid9717219\charrsid5184933 
\par }{\b\f0\fs22\insrsid16546484\charrsid9717219 
It is Allah Who created the seven heavens and of the earth the same number, the Command descending down through all of them, so that you might know that Allah has power over all things and that Allah encompasses all things in His knowledge. (Sura
t at-Talaq: 12)
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid9717219 
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid16546484\charrsid5184933 
The pancreas's ability to manufacture enzymes according to the nature and quantity of incoming foodstuffs is another miracle all its own. The pancreas must know chemical formulae, establish what enzymes will digest which kinds of food, and 
engage in production accordingly. As a result of this controlled process, the pancreas sends to the duodenum its enzyme-rich fluid, containing four enzymes of vital importance to the body: trypsin, chymotrypsin, lipase and amylase. The first two, trypsin 
a
nd chymotrypsin, break down protein into amino acids that later travel the whole body through the bloodstream and are used in tissue manufacture. Amylase converts starch into simple sugars. Lipase breaks down fat droplets, converting them into fatty acids
 
and glycerol. Thanks to enzymes' enormous speed, this is all completed in a very short time. Whether you consume a special meal ordered from a four-star restaurant or just a simple slice of bread, it all assumes the same appearance in the duodenum. The st
ate of the food on your plate is completely different from how it winds up in the duodenum. Enzymes break it down, reduce its particles in size, eliminate wastes and separate the rest for the purpose of keeping your body alive.
\par 
\par }{\b\f0\fs28\insrsid16546484\charrsid6367735 Digestive Enzymes and Their }{\b\f0\fs28\insrsid6367735 
\par }{\b\f0\fs28\insrsid16546484\charrsid6367735 Perfect Organization
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid16546484\charrsid5184933 When synthesized in the pancreatic cells, some enzymes are not yet in an active state. These become active only after passing through the intestinal tract. The chemical trypsin, one of the enzymes already me
ntioned, represents a potential danger to the body's cells. For that reason, it is secreted in an inactive form known as trypsinogen. The moment trypsinogen makes contact with the intestinal mucosa, the enzyme enterokinase secreted by the mucosa converts 
it into its active state. Trypsinogen is also activated by the trypsin that already exists. 
\par It is most important that these enzymes in pancreatic juice should not be active before they progress to the intestine, or else trypsin and other enzymes might dige
st the pancreas itself. Thus the cells that secrete the enzymes in question also release a substance known as a trypsin inhibitor, which prevents trypsin from going into action inside the cells that secrete it and in the pancreatic duct. Since trypsin can
 activate other enzymes, the trypsin inhibitor thus also prevents their activation. 
\par These two enzymes\emdash trypsin and its inhibitor\emdash have no effect when secreted together. But once they reach the duodenum, they separate from one another just as if they had been
 ordered to do so. This division is very important to the digestive process, since the trypsin, suddenly released, starts breaking down proteins in the food reaching the duodenum. The moment and site these two substances separate is very exact. Were they 
t
o part company too early, trypsin would break down the pancreas itself. If they never separated, then food entering the body would not get digested. Yet they never fall into such errors. Every meal you consume is digested as a result of these two molecule
s knowing just when to separate from one another. This happens in exactly the right place and at exactly the right time. 
\par It is of course impossible for enzymes to be able to establish such timing by chance or under their own volition. An enzyme, another protein that inhibits it, the pancreas that manufactures them, the hormones that travel between them as messengers\emdash 
plus all the molecules, other proteins and enzymes involved in these phenomena\emdash cannot all be in the same place at the same time or act together
 in complete harmony by chance. It is impossible for even a single one of these to have formed by coincidence. Allah creates them all, and they are all in a constant state of obedience to Him. 
\par What would happen if there were no trypsin inhibitor? Any fail
ure of this mechanism to function could result in death. For example, when the pancreas suffers severe injury, or when a passage is blocked, a large amount of pancreatic secretions accumulates in the damaged area. That might make the trypsin inhibitor bei
ng insufficient to keep the enzymes, working together at very high speed, from digesting the whole pancreas in a matter of a few hours. The result would be shock, usually ending in death, or a lifetime of pancreatic deficiency.65
\par If the pancreas can't secre
te enough fluid to ensure digestion, this of course presents a major problem. However, the body has taken a precautionary measure against this. In such an eventuality, the pancreas sends messages everywhere in the body in order to locate metabolic enzymes
 
which, when it receives them from other regions of the body, it can convert into digestive enzymes. For the pancreas, this task is very different and more difficult, and since it must work harder, it enlarges. This enlargement does the pancreas no harm, t
hough it does cause pain to the body, and the use of the body's metabolic enzymes for digestive purposes does mean a reduction in the functions of other organs. Dr. Edward Howell explains: 
\par The pancreas must send message to all parts of the body looking for
 enzymes it can reprocess into digestive enzymes. It may even invade the warehouse of the precursors. In a pinch it will beg, borrow, or steal them. When it finds them it has work to do. Changing metabolic enzymes into digestive enzymes means extra work f
o
r the pancreas. It must get bigger, just as a muscle grows from more exercise. This enlargement may not harm the pancreas, but when it confiscates metabolic enzymes it punishes the whole body by depriving it of mechanics every organ and cell needs to carr
y on their process and functions. 66
\par Michael Behe is a professor of biochemistry at Lehigh University. In his book Darwin's Black Box, he described in full detail the complexity involved in the blood-clotting process and the systematic way that enzymes func
tion, pointing to the complex and interconnected details in the clotting system as evidence of what he announced as "irreducible complexity." In the following passage, Behe describes another example of the human body's irreducible complexity: the importan
ce of the pancreatic enzymes, one of the most valuable components of the digestive system: 
\par Pancreatic enzymes, which have to digest a wide variety of protein foodstuffs, are among the most nonspecific of enzymes. Now, that would pose a severe health threat
 to the organism even greater than just an unregulated clotting cascade. For example, if the digestive enzyme precursor trypsinogen were mistargeted to the bloodstream, the potential for disaster would be very large. In the pancreas, misactivation of tryp
s
inogen is prevented by the presence of trypsin inhibitor. In Miller's scenario one cannot plausibly suppose there to be a trypsin inhibitor fortuitously circulating in the plasma. If the mistargeted enzyme were accidentally activated, it would most likely
 cause generalized damage in the absence of a regulatory mechanism. It would not be a viable evolutionary intermediate. 67
\par Such a miraculous system, in which no error ever occurs and which functions so perfectly with its enzymes and the organs that manufact
ure them, is a blessing to constantly remind us of the existence of Almighty Allah. These reminders tell us that humans were not brought into being for no reason and that once they die, they will inevitably be confronted with the life of the Hereafter. If
 
people have the wisdom and understanding necessary to draw conclusions from all this, then all the enzymes and other structures in their bodies will become means whereby they take a step closer to the mercy of Allah, and thus to Paradise. Allah has create
d all His works toward that end, and every miracle of creation will be a means whereby the person who understands it will attain the true path to the beauties in the Hereafter. People are tested in this way, as Allah tells us in the Qur'an: 
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid6367735 
\par }{\b\f0\fs22\insrsid16546484\charrsid6367735 We created man from a mingled drop to test him, and We made him hearing and seeing. We guided him on the Way, whether he is thankful or unthankful. (Surat al-Insan: 2-3)
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid16546484\charrsid5184933 
\par }{\b\f0\fs28\insrsid16546484\charrsid6367735 Enzymes That Work for DNA
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid16546484\charrsid5184933 Enzymes are very special proteins that unfailingly identify which reaction
 they need to act on and where; and seemingly know how much they need to accelerate it. But perhaps the most interesting of all the enzymes that work in the body are those that work for DNA\emdash 
and which also represent a major predicament for the proponents of the theory of evolution. Because these enzymes' existence totally does away with the theory's claims regarding chance, as we shall see in due course. 
\par One of the most interesting aspects of DNA enzymes is that they receive all their operational knowledge 
from DNA, but can also determine and repair any errors in that same DNA. As we know, the DNA molecule is capable of copying itself, but it does not perform this replication process on its own. Enzymes also become involved. The replication takes place, at 
Allah's choosing, by way of enzymes. 
\par DNA is a giant molecule consisting of a data bank of 3 billion "letters." This molecule resembles a spiral staircase twisted into a helix shape. When replication first begins, the enzyme known as DNA helicase separates 
the two DNA strands like a zipper, at a rate of up to 1,000 nucleotide pairs a second. 
\par As it opens the zipper, DNA helicase suddenly stops at the points that represent the limits of the information required. (When a process is to be carried out in the cel
l, only that part of the DNA code concerning that process is copied.) The enzymes know how far the information extends and how far the DNA helix needs to be pried apart.
\par In principle, the unwinding of the DNA helix is made possible by two DNA helicase enzy
mes acting together. One runs along the leading strand template, while the other runs along the lagging strand template. Since the two strands have opposite polarities, these helicases must move in opposite directions on the DNA strand, for which reason t
hey are "different" enzymes. Both types of DNA helicase are present within the cell.68 
\par Once the appropriate DNA region has been found, other enzymes that attach to that region begin reading the nucleotides three by three. The reason for this is that the in
formation is encoded in triple nucleotide strings. (Nucleotides are the constituent bases of the DNA nucleic acid and are known by the names of adenine, thymine, guanine and cytosine.) Millions of nucleotides all joined to one another are constantly read 
by the enzymes, and this whole process takes less than a second. 
\par However, the enzymes that will read and copy the four kinds of nucleotides in DNA\emdash adenine, thymine, guanine and cytosine\emdash are made up of amino acids. Therefore, how an enzyme communicates with
 the DNA helix, and how the nucleotides and amino acids understand one another, is something truly extraordinary, since we are looking at two totally different structures. There is no molecular similarity here to permit a lock-and-key type of compatibilit
y
. In molecular terms, therefore, it would seem very hard for them to establish a connection. However, a solution to this has also been created within the body. The enzymes are easily able to read the codons on the DNA and understand what these codons expr
ess. (A codon is a tri-nucleotide sequence of the code written from the DNA to the mRNA, or messenger RNA. Codons are found in the mRNA molecule.)
\par This can mean only one thing, of course\emdash that the amino acids and nucleic acids were all created by a single Cr
eator at exactly the same time. The way that the amino acids constituting the enzymes recognize the nucleotides, can resolve the codes they contain and use this to perform the vital function of DNA replication can only be explained by their all being unde
r the control of a single Will. Like everything else that exists, they too are the works of Allah. 
\par Leslie E. Orgel is one of the most dyed-in-the-wool modern evolutionists. Yet even he had to admit that these two structures could not have evolved by chance: 
\par It is extremely improbable that proteins and nucleic acids, both of which are structurally complex, arose spontaneously in the same place at the same time. Yet it also seems impossible to have one without the other. And so, at first glance, one might ha
ve to conclude that life could never, in fact, have originated by chemical means.69 
\par Following the unwinding of the DNA strands, other enzymes immediately flock to the DNA and begin scanning it. If during this scanning process, they detect any "error" in t
he DNA they immediately correct it. The faulty part of the damaged DNA strand is identified and torn out by an enzyme known as DNA nuclease. A gap thus appears in the DNA helix.
\par When the flawed section has been done away with, DNA polymerase enters the equ
ation. This enzyme completes each of the two separated DNA strands with a second strand, so that two separate DNA helixes are formed. In stages it checks whether or not they match the bases on the other side. In order to do so, it brings in data correspon
d
ing to those data that comprise the original DNA strand. It separates flawed base molecules and replaces them with new ones. To put it another way, it copies 3 billion separate letters in a completely flawless manner. In addition, DNA polymerase checks al
l
 these different stages twice, never departing before the second checking process has been carried out. At the same time, another polymerase enzyme completes the other half of the DNA. As all this goes on, helix stabilizing enzymes cling on to the ends to
 prevent the two strands of the DNA helix from winding round one another again. Yet another enzyme intervenes in the renewed section to ensure that the correct, newly installed base is firmly in place. 
\par The enzyme editase, which enters the scene in the wake of all these stages, again checks the separated part and checks the revisions that have been made. Once that has been performed, an identical copy of the original DNA is complete.
\par The correction process does not end here, however. You'll recall that there was a break in the DNA strand where the correction was performed. This break is repaired by the enzyme DNA ligase. 
\par This repair is exceedingly important, since if any error occurs during such a vital process as DNA replication, the codons in the new nucle
otide sequences will be disordered. With one missing nucleotide, all the codons read in triplicate will change, and as a result, molecules will be produced that mean nothing to the organism and the living body in question will start to die.
\par Another important enzyme works inside this extraordinary system during the synthesis of RNA from DNA. Instead of checking for incorrect and wrongly copied bases in RNA and extracting them one by one, this enzyme cuts base sequences out from the region lik
e
 a pair of scissors, by identifying regions in which bases have been set out incorrectly. If this cutting process takes place in several regions simultaneously, instead of in one only, the DNA strand will begin to fall apart. To prevent this, the cell dis
patches another enzyme to the region. This enzyme brings the divided DNA strands back together again and joins them up.70
\par Enzymes, with their enormous working capacity, result in perfect replication of DNA. This phenomenon is constantly taking place at grea
t speed in every cell in the human body. Each and every day, in fact, some 20,000 repair processes are carried out in every one of the human body's 100 trillion cells.71
\par The enzymes that work to replicate DNA operate as quickly as permitted by the great ca
re they take. In a striking way, enzymes working on DNA determine their speed according to the reactions they must perform. For example, DNA polymerase completes only some 10 or so bases a second. This rate is fairly slow, compared to enzymes such as cata
l
ase, which breaks down 5 million hydrogen peroxide molecules a second. This speed is determined by the quantity of copy DNA required by the body. The cell establishes its requirement, and the enzymes work in line with that production rate. At some places 
in the body, enzymes literally have to work approaching the speed of light, because where they operate, what counts is speed. The faster they complete their reactions, the better the body will be able to remain healthy. 
\par Production of the enzymes that work 
for DNA is another controlled process. A large number of enzymes are involved in DNA replication, but their use and production are carried out economically. Again, the DNA itself controls this. An on/off switch on the DNA (repressor gene) keeps production
 under control. The switch is kept normally in an "off" position, until the need for an enzyme arises.72
\par Even a small electron exchange taking place in the body is important, and the results are very great. Every reaction must take place in a controlled man
ner. Every reaction requires a division of labor, and the involvement of countless enzymes all acting together. The duties and speed of each one, and the molecules they will act upon, must all be predetermined. Each enzyme must constantly strive to keep t
h
e cell healthy and never make a mistake. So who makes all these determinations? Who controls these and ensures that they are free of error? Who can program them in such a way as to keep such a complex mechanism as the human body alive and healthy? Who can
 maintain the interdependency in this giant system consisting entirely of tiny molecules?
\par It is Almighty Allah Who does and creates all this. 
\par If a person can realize all this perfection in his own body and has the ability to comprehend it, then he will cle
arly see the existence of Almighty Allah, our Creator. It is He Who creates us, everything we have, and all entities on the Earth and heavens. Nothing is independent of Allah. Every living cell we examine is flawless because it acts under the direction of
 
Allah. And because they are under His control, they demonstrate such abilities and extraordinary properties. It is a grave error and terrible ingratitude for anyone to ignore all this and imagine himself an independent entity, a miracle of coincidence, wh
i
le in reality his entire being is in complete obedience to Allah. Even if some insist on ascribing this sublime creation to chance, every enzyme in their bodies, every protein and every electron exhibit harmony with the system determined for them by Allah
 and constantly take their inspiration from Him. 
\par This fact is also imparted in verses from the Qur'an: 
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid6295589 
\par }{\b\f0\fs22\insrsid9717219 \page }{\b\f0\fs22\insrsid16546484\charrsid6295589 Everyone in the heavens and Earth belongs to Him. All are submissive to Him. It is He Who originated creation and then regenerates it. That is very easy
 for Him. His is the most exalted designation in the heavens and the earth. He is the Almighty, the All-Wise. (Surat ar-Rum: 26-27)
\par }{\b\f0\fs22\insrsid6295589\charrsid6295589 
\par }{\b\f0\fs22\insrsid16546484\charrsid6295589 ... everything in the heavens and Earth belongs to Him. Everything is obedient to Him. (Surat al-Baqara: 116)
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid16546484\charrsid5184933 
\par }{\b\f0\fs28\insrsid16546484\charrsid6295589 Are Enzymes the Source of DNA, 
\par or the Other Way Around?
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid16546484\charrsid5184933 The question of DNA and enzymes working for DNA constitutes one of the greatest impasses confronting evolutionists. The "irreducible complexity" posing such a dilemma for evolutionists will be encountered again d
uring the course of this section. DNA, one of the cell's most complex structures, and enzymes, some of the body's complex proteins, work together in a system in which neither can be separated from the other. It is impossible to remove even a single compon
ent from the complex system in which they participate and claim that some parts "evolved" before others. 
\par As described in the previous section in some detail, DNA needs enzymes for the replication process. Yet at this stage, something very interesting arises. For the enzymes that enable DNA replication to come into being\emdash 
which enzymes monitor the DNA at every stage, then correct any errors and check the DNA again from beginning to end\emdash the necessary production information should already exist in DNA. Enzymes 
are proteins manufactured under DNA's control, according to the information encoded in that DNA. In other words, enzyme synthesis is impossible without DNA. On the other hand, in the absence of enzymes, the chemical reactions to produce the sugar ribose, 
the "backbone" of DNA and RNA, cannot take place. To put that another way, DNA synthesis in turn is impossible in the absence of enzymes.73 DNA is essential for enzymes to exist, and vice-versa. 
\par This fact presents a severe disappointment to evolutionists. 
The precondition of the emergence of two complex systems is an even worse problem for the theory of evolution, which is unable to account for either one. Even if we accepted the impossible claim that DNA did emerge first, as the result of chance, we would
 also have to accept that it then waited for the development of those enzymes that would enable it to be copied\emdash 
again by chance. Yet clearly, any DNA that had to wait so long to be replicated could be of no use to a living organism. Even if we believed another impossibility\emdash 
that enzymes came into being, again by chance, before DNA, then we'd also be forced to accept that enzymes as yet had no data bank to store their production data and characteristics. Under these conditions, even if an enzyme did appear (d
espite all the impossibilities), it would still be impossible for any more to be produced. Therefore, the DNA-enzyme relationship constitutes an inseparable whole: The two have to co-exist together. 
\par Evolutionists cannot offer any explanation as to what came into existence and how in our DNA-based life. These fundamental components display a truly irreducible complexity that must have existed ever since their beginning.
\par Charles McCombs, an organic chemist from California University, states that there can be no evolutionary history behind DNA and DNA enzymes:
\par If the repair mechanism evolved first, what use is a repair mechanism if DNA has not evolved yet? If DNA evolved first, how would the DNA even know it would be better off with a repair mechanism? Can mol
ecules think? DNA is not a stable chemical molecule, and without a repair mechanism, it would easily deteriorate by chemical oxidation and other processes. There is no mechanism to explain how DNA could exist for millions of years while the repair mechani
sm evolved. DNA would just decompose back into pond scum before the alleged billions of random chance mutations could ever form the repair mechanism. 74
\par It's of course out of question that two molecules might evolve together. Yet recall that evolutionists s
till can't explain the emergence of even a single DNA molecule or a single enzyme. Evolutionists will never be able to explain this because a chance emergence of an enzyme independently of DNA, or of DNA independently of enzymes, or even of a single enzym
e or protein constituting DNA, is impossible. 
\par The DNA-and-enzyme dilemma, which makes all claims regarding evolution totally irrelevant, is greeted with great astonishment by evolutionists. The American evolutionist biologist Frank B. Salisbury, whose arti
cles appear in the American Biology Teacher magazine, admits the impossibility of any evolutionary explanation: 
\par Surely our ideas about the origin of life will have to change radically with the passage of time. Not only is the gene itself a problem: think 
of the system that would have to come into being to produce a living cell! It's nice to talk about replicating DNA molecules arising in a soupy sea, but in modern cells this replication requires the presence of suitable enzymes. Furthermore, DNA by itself
 
accomplishes nothing. Its only reason for existence is the information that it carries and that is used in the production of a protein enzyme. At the moment, the link between DNA and the enzyme is a highly complex one, involving RNA and an enzyme for its 
synthesis on a DNA template; ribosomes; enzymes to activate the amino acids; and transfer-RNA molecules\'85
 It's as though everything must happen at once: the entire system must come into being as one unit, or it is worthless. There may well be ways out of this dilemma, but I don't see them at the moment. 75 
\par Duane T. Gish, president of the Institute of Creation Research, also states that there can be no evolutionary history when it comes to the subject of DNA and DNA enzymes: 
\par As a matter of fact, even though 
the many metabolic activities found within a living cell are absolutely indispensable for its existence, and these activities are in turn almost totally dependent upon enzymes, the existence of enzymes before living things existed would have been disastro
u
s. Let us suppose that a proteolytic enzyme [protease], that is, an enzyme that catalyzes the hydrolysis or breakdown of protein, somehow arose in the hypothetical "primordial soup" of the primeval world. Its origin would have been totally disastrous, for
 
it would have happily set about catalyzing the rapid destruction of all protein in sight, and soon there would be no protein left. Similarly, RNases [ribonuclease] would destroy all the RNA, DNases would breakdown all the DNA, deaminases would deaminate a
ll amines, decarboxylases would decarboxylate all carboxylic acids, etc. How could such substances be "selected for" when their presence outside of the regulated environment of a living cell would have been destructive? 
\par By no stretch of the imagination, then, could natural selection have had anything to do with the origin of life. ... the origin of life by naturalistic, mechanistic process is totally impossible. 76
\par Despite his being an evolutionist, Caryl P. Haskins, director of the Washington Carnegie Institute, openly admits that it is impossible for these two interdependent complex systems to have evolved by chance:
\par But the most sweeping evolutionary questions at the level of biochemical genetics are still unanswered. How the genetic code first appeared a
nd then evolved and, earlier than that, how life itself originated on earth remain for the future to resolve . . . The fact that in all organisms living today the processes both of replication of the DNA and of the effective translation of its code requir
e
 highly precise enzymes and that, at the same time the molecular structures of those same enzymes are precisely specified by the DNA itself, poses a remarkable evolutionary mystery . . . Did the code and the means of translating it appear simultaneously i
n
 evolution? It seems almost incredible that any such coincidence could have occurred, given the extraordinary complexities of both sides and the requirement that they be coordinated accurately for survival. By a pre-Darwinian this puzzle would surely have
 been interpreted as the most powerful sort of evidence for special creation.77
\par Two complex structures are under discussion here. Evolutionists have not been able to explain the formation of enzymes, much less how the amino acids comprising an enzyme combin
ed in the correct sequence to produce a protein. They have not even attempted to address the issue of DNA's origin. The fact that these two complex structures behave in such a way as to remind us of the question of the chicken and the egg\emdash 
the way the one is responsible for the production of the other\emdash represents a major difficulty placed at evolutionists' door by scientific progress. 
\par This is actually one of the finest lessons that the science of microbiology can give evolutionists, who seek to offer an expl
anation other than creation for all the complex systems they encounter, and who propose exceedingly illogical and inconsistent claims on the subject. Evolutionists have no theory to suggest regarding the formation of both DNA and enzymes, nor any fictitio
u
s mechanisms to propose. They are dealing with an incomparable, astonishing and literally extraordinary miracle of creation. Clearly, both DNA and enzymes have been sited in just the right place in the cell for their separate functions and interdependent 
attributes. There can be no other explanation for this than creation. 
\par Allah sees a single nucleotide in a DNA helix, a single atom it contains and every electron moving at a speed of thousands of miles a second, at every moment, and monitors and controls them all. Everything acquires a perfect complexity by Allah's choosing
.
 Systems operate because that is Allah's will. Human beings remain alive because Allah so wishes. It is Allah Who knows every process taking place in every cell of every human being who has ever lived. It is Allah Who controls and creates out of nothing t
h
e thousands of processes taking place in the cell, the molecules involved in these processes and all the minute components that comprise them. That is why those who look for an explanation other than creation are constantly in a hopeless position. They th
emselves are also aware that they can offer no other explanation for all the things that Allah has created by commanding them to "Be!" Allah tells us of His boundless might in a verse: 
\par }{\b\f0\fs22\insrsid9245124 
\par }{\b\f0\fs22\insrsid16546484\charrsid6295589 The Originator of the heavens and Earth. When He decides on something, He just says to it, "Be!" and it is. (Surat al-Baqara: 117)
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid16546484\charrsid5184933 
\par }{\b\f0\fs28\insrsid16546484\charrsid6295589 The Enzymes That Control RNA
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid16546484\charrsid5184933 RNA, or ribonucleic acid, is a large molecule that, like DNA, consists of consecutive nucleotides. However, different from DNA, it is single stranded and uses uracil 
instead of thymine present in DNA. By working together with DNA, RNA plays a role in the synthesis of enzymes.
\par For any process in our bodies\emdash all the chemical reactions for the formation of a single growing hair, for example\emdash the requisite enzymes have to be
 produced. Messages are therefore transmitted to that part of the DNA where enzymes are to be produced. Since DNA and RNA perform enzyme production together, RNA synthesis must also take place in that site where the message goes.
\par In order for that to happe
n, it's essential that the DNA should assume an active state, that the RNA should be exported from the nucleus into the cytoplasm, and that enzymes should be synthesized. Again, all the different stages in the synthesis of RNA are controlled by other enzy
m
es. One of those manufactured, adenosine triphosphatase (or ATPase) establishes the use of ATPs, while another directs the ATPases to the proper location. Meanwhile, thousands of other enzymes carry out thousands of other reactions through similar stages 
in order to keep the cell alive. Yet one very important point needs to be emphasized: RNA is synthesized for enzyme production, yet it is enzymes that synthesize RNA! 
\par RNA molecules brought into being by genes in the cell nucleus act as templates upon which
 enzymes are formed. If a living organism is born with a defective gene or if one of its genes is missing, that means the RNA molecule is incomplete, and that some enzymes have not formed in the cell. Therefore, those reactions dependent on the enzyme tha
t's not been manufactured fail to occur, and the organism is defective. If the enzymes and reactions they perform are vital, the organism will inevitably die.78 
\par Enzymes are manufactured by RNA, but RNA needs the enzymes themselves in order to be able to ma
nufacture enzymes and correct errors in them. In other words, the same thing applies to RNA as applies to DNA; this system works just as with DNA. When a protein needs to be manufactured in the cell, an enzyme known as RNA polymerase travels to the DNA, t
h
e cell's data bank. It finds the data concerning the protein to be manufactured and makes a copy of them. Sometimes, however, the data regarding the protein to be produced may be dispersed in different regions. Under such circumstances, the RNA polymerase
 copies the entire region\emdash from where the data begin to where they come to an end. In doing so, the enzyme also copies sequences that serve no immediate purpose. 
\par The presence of unnecessary data will lead to the production of a different, useless protein. I
n order to prevent this, a new enzyme known as spliceosome enters the equation and removes the non-coding intervening sequences from among hundreds of thousands of pieces of data, then joins together the chains necessary for the manufacture of the protein
.
\par At this point, the tRNA codon (transfer RNA: a small RNA chain that transports amino acids to the ribosome for protein synthesis) must be attached to the correct amino acid. There is at least one kind of tRNA for each of the 20 amino acids.79 If this vita
l stage in DNA replication does not function properly, then the DNA sequence will be damaged and be functionless. A special enzyme, aminoacyl tRNA synthetase, is responsible for attaching the proper amino acid to the tRNA. During this process it has to be
 ensured that every tRNA carries the correct amino acid, and that none of the other 19 amino acids are affected. Since the enzyme in question works without error, these risks in the copying of DNA are totally eliminated.80 
\par The dilemma in DNA replication al
so emerges in RNA replication. The proteins that permit RNA copying are, again, enzymes produced by RNA. It is therefore impossible to speak of enzymes in the absence of RNA, and vice-versa. Accordingly, evolutionists face insoluble problems regarding how
 
RNA polymers can replicate in the absence of proteins.81 RNA's particular enzymes must be working at full capacity, and with all their functions, from the moment that RNA comes into being. Yet at the same time, those enzymes have to be manufactured by RNA
. Evolutionists are unable to account for this contradiction, or to explain how even one of these structures might have come into being by chance. 
\par Will they suggest that two basically different molecules that cannot operate independently of one another came into being accidently and for no reason, at exactly the same moment, and that they located one another and began working together\emdash 
again by chance? Can any scientist who spent years training in laboratories and who knows this system down to the finest det
ails make such a claim? To make such an unscientific, irrational claim solely in order to be able to deny the fact of Allah's creation would thoroughly discredit any such scientist. 
\par For that reason, adherents of the theory of evolution are unwilling to ad
vance such claims openly. Rather, they seek to disguise everything under a scientific mask, but also fail in that. The evolutionist Leslie E. Orgel is one of those who have had to admit this manifest impossibility: 
\par We proposed that RNA might well have com
e first and established what is now called the RNA world... This scenario could have occurred, we noted, if prebiotic RNA had two properties not evident today: a capacity to replicate without the help of proteins and an ability to catalyze every step of p
rotein synthesis.82 
\par Here, Orgel is referring to an imaginary process such as evolution producing RNA, together with enzymes. In that fictitious process, however, it is impossible for even one of the components of these complex structures, let alone the str
uctures themselves, to come into being by chance. 
\par So perfect is Allah's creation that even if all the humans in the world joined forces, they still could not produce a single cell. They can propose no alternative explanation to Allah's creation. A system 
in which RNA cannot exist without enzymes, and enzymes cannot exist without RNA, is one of the indisputably finest examples of this perfection. 
\par In the Qur'an, Allah tells us that He is the Creator of all things: 
\par }{\b\f0\fs22\insrsid9245124 
\par }{\b\f0\fs22\insrsid16546484\charrsid6295589 Among His signs is the creation of the heavens and Earth and all the creatures He has spread about in them. And He has the power to gather them together whenever He wills. (Surat ash-Shura: 29) 
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid16546484\charrsid5184933 
\par 
\par }{\f0\fs22\cf1\insrsid16546484\charrsid5184933 
\par }\pard \qc \fi567\li0\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid6295589 {\f0\fs22\cf1\insrsid6295589 \page }{\b\f0\fs36\cf1\insrsid16546484\charrsid6295589 Some Special Enzymes
\par }\pard \qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid5184933 {\f0\fs22\cf1\insrsid16546484\charrsid5184933 
\par 
\par Every detail concerning enzymes is quite astonishing, and every one of the ta
sks enzymes perform is of the greatest importance. Therefore, each enzyme is special. The aim of this section is to demonstrate that every enzyme in the body has perfect features. As a reminder of enzymes' vital importance, we'll introduce in general term
s
, those enzymes that cause the blood to clot and which also provide necessary mechanisms for thought. If someone can know how enzymes enable him to talk with a friend, eat a favorite fruit, enjoy a landscape or to laugh and smile and work, then he can als
o grasp the fine detail in these blessings. He will realize that there is a purpose behind all the blessings bestowed on him, and that in every cell there is something extraordinary and specially created for mankind. 
\par He may recall that all these things con
tinue to function by Allah's leave and that if He so chose, Allah could bring them all to a halt in a moment. He will realize that if such a moment ever came, there would be nothing to do, no solution. He will see that the enzymes created as a blessing by
 
Allah cannot go into operation by any other means. This will bring him to a proper appreciation of the Creator and faith in His existence, which will be of the greatest benefit to him both in this world and in the Hereafter. Look at the details regarding 
enzymes from that perspective, and never forget that they are all blessings bestowed on you.
\par 
\par }{\b\f0\fs28\cf1\insrsid16546484\charrsid6295589 Enzymes That Transmit 
\par Messages in the Body
\par }{\f0\fs22\cf1\insrsid16546484\charrsid5184933 The network of nerves in your body maintains constant activity. The nerves permit coordi
nation between your brain and organs, by which reason commands and stimuli are constantly dispatched along the nerves. When you go to wave your hand at someone, that movement begins with a command from the brain, via an electrical current transmitted alon
g
 nerves. Nerves encounter one another at specific junctions or gaps separating two nerve cells known as synapses. An impulse continues on its way until it comes to a synapse, then it stops. The synapse's gap might seem to represent a problem for the impul
s
e: Transmission should stop and the signal fail to reach the next nerve. Yet no such difficulty ever actually takes place, because the nerve sending the signal releases a chemical compound known as acetylcholine into the synapse to permit the impulse to p
a
ss from the dispatching nerve to the receiving one. When the nerve impulse reaches the synapse, a collection of acetylcholine molecules washes across that gap. They attach to the receptors on the other side of the gap and trigger the other cell into actio
n. At this, the muscles contract because the message from the brain has reached the arm. 
\par You can now lift your hand and wave. 
\par Nerves use a system similar to Morse code for communication. But this system consists of dots only. The more important the message, the greater the dot density. Every dot\emdash every nerve impulse, in other words\emdash 
triggers its own release of acetylcholine. Put another way, the impulse that lets you wave your hand runs along the same nerves that enable you to walk, but each one releases dif
ferent acetylcholine molecules. For that reason, the region where these transmitters are found has to be cleared before another signal arrives, or otherwise, the messages will become mixed up. For nerves that must sometimes transmit 500 signals a second, 
this means that numerous acetylcholine transmitters have to be wiped every millisecond. 
\par Acetylcholinesterase enzymes have been created in such a manner that they can do this. These catalysts tear into the acetylcholine molecules at enormous speed. Biochemi
sts have calculated that they destroy 25,000 molecules every second. Viewed from another perspective, each esterase enzyme breaks down an acetylcholine molecule in around 40 milliseconds.83 
\par Many times here, it has been repeated that if even a single enzym
e loses its important function, the living organism will start to die, because our lives depend upon these peerless entities so many billions of times smaller than us and their constant activity in our bodies. By itself, acetylcholinesterase is proof of t
his. Of all the enzymes in the body, if only this enzyme were missing, we could not possibly live, since in a sense, all the electricity in our bodies would be shut off.
\par Disorders such as Alzheimer's disease are the result of this enzyme in question failing
 to function systematically. In that disease, acetylcholine is destroyed more quickly than normal, and thus nerve impulses are either too weak to be received or else not transmitted completely along the nerve cells.84
\par The intercommunication between 100 bil
lion nerve cells and the nervous network stretching thousands of miles among them is a most marvelous work of Allah. If He so chose, He could of course have created an uninterrupted field with no gaps anywhere on it. The electrical signal could have flowe
d
 along the nerves without the need for any chemicals. But this is not how the body works. There is a need for gaps between the nerves, for the chemicals to ensure the transmission between them, and for other chemicals to inhibit these same chemicals. One 
o
f the wisest aspects of this is how human beings investigating all this in the laboratory constantly find perfections, miracles and complexities. Allah creates details within details of an extraordinary complexity, and brings them into being dependent on 
one another. 
\par Here, we are examining the activities of one single component of the system. However, if you remove this small component from the equation, the system will be deprived of all its functions. In other words, only a single enzyme is a critical pa
rt of the nervous system. You cannot reduce this mechanism or simplify it. Were it not for this enzyme, the message from your brain would not reach your arm, but become lost in your body. You would be unable even to move your finger, let alone wave at a f
riend. 
\par These amazing systems you possess are created by Allah. This process is constantly repeated in all your 100 billion nerve cells for the millions of movements you make every day and the countless stimuli from your senses. Allah knows what each one do
es. Allah protects you and keeps you alive at every moment. All entities are under His control and are submitted to Him. 
\par Allah reminds us of the truth of this in a verse: 
\par }{\b\f0\fs22\cf1\insrsid16546484\charrsid6295589 You do not engage in any matter or recite any of the Qur'an or do any action withou
t Our witnessing you while you are occupied with it. Not even the smallest speck eludes your Lord, either on earth or in heaven. Nor is there anything smaller than that, or larger, which is not in a Clear Book. (Surah Yunus: 61)
\par }{\f0\fs22\cf1\insrsid16546484\charrsid5184933 
\par }{\b\f0\fs28\cf1\insrsid16546484\charrsid6295589 The Perfect Enzyme Chain }{\b\f0\fs28\cf1\insrsid6295589 
\par }{\b\f0\fs28\cf1\insrsid16546484\charrsid6295589 in Blood Clotting
\par }{\f0\fs22\cf1\insrsid16546484\charrsid5184933 
The blood-clotting system is an extraordinary phenomenon that operates so flawlessly that when you cut yourself, you can be sure that the flow of blood will soon stop and the injury will seal itself up. That certainty stems from the way th
e enzymes in your body work in a flawless, systematic manner. 
\par A wound sends the entire body into alarm. The intervention will take place at the site of the cut. When bleeding starts anywhere in the body, all available means are mobilized and flow in the d
irection of the injury. At this point, certain molecules traveling through the bloodstream suddenly become active, at enormous speed. 
\par First aid is delivered by blood platelets known as thrombocytes. These travel dispersed throughout the bloodstream, so that wherever bleeding may occur, a thrombocyte will always be patrolling nearby.
\par A protein known as von Willebrand factor works like a policeman calling for backup assistance by indicating the site of an accident. It halts thrombocytes when it detects them 
and ensures that they remain at the site. The first thrombocyte to arrive signals others by releasing a special substance, just as if it were summoning assistance over the radio. 
\par Once the first intervention has occurred, enzymes take over the work. Up to 
this point, in fact, a large number of enzymes have already become involved, but we shall concentrate on those that complete the coagulation process. The body always stores inactive enzymes for later use, coding them to go into action only when they recei
ve the signal that their presence is required. 
\par Fibrinogen is a non-active enzyme that travels freely through the body and is found dissolved in blood plasma. It circulates at random until the body suffers a cut anywhere, and then it suddenly goes into acti
on. This protein that serves no function in the plasma heads towards the region of the injury. When a state of alarm develops, another enzyme called thrombin cuts two of the three links in fibrinogen's protein chain, thus converting fibrinogen into fibrin
.
 In other words, a previously non-active enzyme assumes an active role. Small, adhesive parts have now appeared on the injured surface. These allow fibrin to bond to other fibrin molecules. The result is a long chain, and the proteins quickly combine and 
interlace with one another. This is the primary clot that forms. Subsequently, this fibrin mesh will continue to cover the wound just like a tightly-woven fishing net. 
\par At the same time, thrombin turns the enzyme factor XIII into factor XIIIa, which strengthens the fibrin clot.85
\par The thrombin that activates fibrinogen also exists in the blood in an inactive state known as prothrombin. This is vital, because if thrombin constantly coursed through the bloodstream, it would sever all the fibrinogens. Uncontroll
ed clotting would occur in the body constantly. In order to avoid any such danger, prothrombin too must be activated by another enzyme.
\par That enzyme, called the Stuart factor, cleaves and activates prothrombin. But what applies to thrombin also applies to S
tuart factor. Were it to be moving actively in the blood right from the outset, then in that case, the Stuart factor would constantly initiate the clotting mechanism and uncontrolled clotting would also begin. For that reason, Stuart factor also exists in
 an active state while circulating in the blood.
\par However, Stuart factor by itself is not enough for prothrombin to be set into action. Still another enzyme, accelerin, works with it to convert prothrombin into thrombin. 
\par We might therefore assume that accelerin is also initially not in an active state. However, its activation system involves a puzzle reminiscent of the riddle of "the chicken and the egg"\emdash 
because it is thrombin that activates accelerin! How do we explain the fact that accelerin is activated by the very enzyme that it itself activates? 
\par The reason is that Stuart factor cleaves the prothrombin at a very low rate. The result is that as a precautionary measure, a certain amount of thrombin is always ready in the body. The whole phenomenon begins w
ith this significant precaution and as the Stuart factor goes into action, the clotting system also goes into action at high speed.
\par This system of various factors enables blood clotting to take place. The enzymes must know which have to go into action when
, where they need to concentrate, and what gap in the body they have to cover over. They also need to know when to stop their work. If the clotting process that begins over a wound does not stop at the proper stage, this will constitute a serious danger f
or the body. Uncontrolled clotting will mean blood vessel congestion, and vital organs will fail to function. It is therefore essential to halt the activities of these enzymes that consecutively activate one another. Yet other enzymes inform them of this.

\par O
nce the wound has healed, the blood clot also needs to be removed. The molecules that arrive on the scene for this task are, again, enzymes. The one known as plasmin works like a pair of scissors to cut the fibrin clots. Plasmin works on fibrin, but not o
n
 fibrinogen, the latter's inactive state. Were that not so, it would cause a serious difficulty for future clotting. Plasmin cannot act too quickly, which is actually an advantage: Otherwise, the wound would not heal before plasmin, which is activated whe
n the wound appears, had severed the fibrin, breaking down clots as soon as they formed. 
\par 
\par There are numerous other enzymes involved in the blood clotting system. Each is necessary to carry out or complete a particular process, and all are parts of an irreducibly complex system from which not a single component can be removed. 
\par The author James Perloff was once a dyedin-the-wool atheist, but now advocates the fact of creation against evolution. He adds to Michael Behe's comments regarding the dilemma facing evolutionists with regard to the blood-clotting system:
\par The formation of a blood clot is a complex, multi-step process that utilizes numerous proteins, many with no other function besides clotting. Each protein depends on an enzyme to activate it. So to paraphrase Behe very simply: What evolved first\emdash 
the protein or enzyme? Not the protein; it c
annot function without the enzyme to switch it on. But why would nature evolve the activating enzyme first? Without the protein, it serves no purpose. Furthermore, if blood clotting had evolved step-by-step over eons, creatures would have bled to death be
fore it was ever perfected. The system is irreducibly complex.86 
\par Could any system that consists of hundreds of stages, not one of which can be simplified or removed, have formed as the result of unconscious molecules joining together by chance? Can unconsc
ious atoms accidently give rise to one enzyme belonging to the blood-clotting system? Can coincidences work miracles? Can chance create something out of nothing? 
\par None of these are possible, of course. Evolutionists maintain that blind coincidences created
 out of unconscious atoms a clotting system that behaves in a literally conscious manner. Chance is the false deity of Darwinism, that supposedly works miracles. That is why evolutionists seek to convince others that chance produces new species, works mir
acles and creates something out of nothing. 
\par The fact is, however, that it is impossible for perfect, regular systems to emerge as a result of random, uncontrolled and unconscious phenomena. Any random event in a mechanism as complex and detailed as the blo
od-clotting system, so sensitive at the molecular level and requiring a complex division of tasks, will turn that whole procedure upside down. Like all the other systems in the human body, this system demonstrates the might and greatness of Allah. 
\par Allah is the Creator of all things and all things are obedient to Him: 
\par }{\f0\fs22\cf1\insrsid6295589 
\par }{\b\f0\fs22\cf1\insrsid16546484\charrsid6295589 That is Allah, your Lord. There is no deity but Him, the Creator of everything. So worship Him. He is responsible for everything. Eyesight cannot perceive Him but He perceives eyesight. He is
 the All-Penetrating, the All-Aware. (Surat al-An\lquote am: 102-103)
\par }{\f0\fs22\cf1\insrsid16546484\charrsid5184933 
\par }{\b\f0\fs28\cf1\insrsid16546484\charrsid6295589 Lysosomal Enzymes
\par }{\f0\fs22\cf1\insrsid16546484\charrsid5184933 One of the organelles that exhibit intense activity within the cell is the lysosome. Each lysosome is about 0.5 microns in diameter (1 micron = 1/1,000 millimeters). They con
tain various degradative enzymes. Thanks to these enzymes, a great many eliminatory processes are performed in the body. 
\par The lysosome is the cells' grinder. Lysosome enzymes tear apart, break down and destroy cells no longer of any use in the body. Bacter
ia, virus and cell fragments, dead tissues and large, harmful particles are all eliminated as the result of the activities of these enzymes, leaving behind useful parts that the body can recycle. For example, the dark area that occurs when you bruise your
 skin is the remains of the dead cells in that area. The region soon heals and returns to its former state, thanks to the lysosomal enzymes breaking down and getting rid of dead tissues. 
\par Thirty-six different enzymes serve in the lysosome. These enzymes ope
n a hole in the membrane surrounding a structure and halt the body's constantly multiplying cells by breaking them down. This is exceedingly important, because if this process did not take place, cells in the body would keep on multiplying, leading to org
an growth and the constant formation of tumors throughout the body. 
\par Since these degradative duties are vital to the body's defense system, these enzymes are generally found in leukocytes and macrophages, which are able to ingest bacteria and other foreign 
materials they encounter within the body by way of phagocytosis. (For more on phagocytosis, see Harun Yahya, The Miracle of the Immune System, [New Delhi: Goodword Books, 2001].)
\par Lysosomal enzymes are highly efficient at breaking down substances. Inside th
e lysosome, however, they are in an inactive state. If the lysosome membrane is pierced or torn, the enzymes begin destroying the cell they are in, a process known as autolysis. This destruction generally takes place on old or damaged organelles or ones t
hat are no longer functioning. The lysosome inside every cell performs this process through the enzymes it releases, eliminates dead organelles, and sometimes completely destroys the cell itself.
\par For example, a large number of bacteria enter your body along
 with the food you eat. The duty of destroying these while they are still in the mouth lies with the lysosomal enzymes. At the same time, these enzymes ingest and clear up food wastes remaining in the mouth, thus eliminating the food that can support bact
eria. In this way, bacteria are condemned to death by starvation.
\par Lysosomal enzymes serve again and again at different times in very different regions of the body. During pregnancy, the growth of the womb is a result of cell multiplication. This ability whi
le the baby is still developing is a life-saving and miraculous development. However, this cell multiplication needs to come to an end after birth, and the body must return to its former state\emdash 
which is where lysosomal enzymes come in. The lysosomes of spec
ific cells are alerted and start manufacturing enzymes, as if they literally knew what they need to do. Then over the next 10 days, they carry out a large process of destruction, resulting in a 40-fold reduction in the size of the mother's womb.
\par The destru
ctive effects of lysosomal enzymes are also required for fertilization. When the sperm cell reaches the ovum, it employs the destructive lysosomal enzymes it carries with it to pierce the sheath surrounding the egg. Thanks to these enzymes, the sperm can 
enter and fertilize the egg.
\par Since all the processes in the body occur at the molecular level, perhaps you may never have imagined that the body could also contain waste products. In fact, however, cells are constantly dying as the human body renews itself 
and in its constant fight against bacteria and viruses\emdash 
and waste products are constantly emerging. If allowed to accumulate, these might cause poisoning of cells, congestion in the bloodstream, and organs to cease operation. The lysosomal enzymes in the body serve as a precaution against this. 
\par Like all the other parts of the human body they behave very rationally, never intervening against healthy structures. They immediately identify the wastes that need to be eliminated and act to keep the body alive. Th
ey act as to the command and will of Allah. Unless Allah so wishes, no other power can do what they do or produce anything like them. 
\par Allah is Magnificent and Almighty, and His artistry enfolds all places. This is revealed in a verse: }{\f0\fs22\cf1\insrsid16546484 
\par }{\f0\fs22\cf1\insrsid6295589\charrsid5184933 
\par }{\b\f0\fs22\cf1\insrsid16546484\charrsid6295589 Allah, there is no 
deity but Him, the Living, the Self-Sustaining. He is not subject to drowsiness or sleep. Everything in the heavens and the earth belongs to Him. Who can intercede with Him except by His permission? He knows what is before them and what is behind them, bu
t they cannot grasp any of His knowledge save what He wills. His Footstool encompasses the heavens and the earth and their preservation does not tire Him. He is the Most High, the Magnificent. (Surat al-Baqara: 255)
\par }{\f0\fs22\cf1\insrsid16546484\charrsid5184933 
\par }{\b\f0\fs28\cf1\insrsid16546484\charrsid6295589 Enzyme Inhibitors
\par }{\f0\fs22\cf1\insrsid16546484\charrsid5184933 Enzymes are constantly
 active within the body. As a result of communication between organelles, these proteins know when they must go into action and operate non-stop. Sometimes, however, their activities must be halted or prevented. When the reactions in progress reach a suff
icient level to meet the cell's requirements\emdash in other words, when the intervention performed by enzymes is completed\emdash 
the body has a system to bring all their activities to an end. This really magnificent control system is carried out by other proteins known as enzyme inhibitors. 
\par Inhibitors inactivate an enzyme by binding to it. The binding of an inhibitor is either reversible or irreversible. Irreversible inhibitors bind covalently and change the enzyme chemically. Reversible inhibitors, however, bind to en
zymes non-covalently. There are two types of reversible inhibitors: competitive and non-competitive inhibitors. 
\par A competitive inhibitor blocks the active site of an enzyme. The inhibitor is similar in structure to the real substrate and the enzyme binds t
o the inhibitor rather than to its intended substrate. The enzyme's active site is thus closed off in such a way as to prevent its binding to the substrate at the same time. 
\par A non-competitive inhibitor binds to a different site on an enzyme, other than th
e active site. This neutralizes the enzyme because inhibitor binding changes the enzyme's tertiary structure and the substrate's affinity for the active site is reduced. However, non-competitive inhibitors do not eliminate all of an enzyme's activity; the
y only decrease it. 
\par Penicillin is an excellent example of this. By inhibiting the enzymes that bacteria need to make their cell walls, it causes the bacteria to burst.87
\par Various drugs have been manufactured according to the enzyme-inhibition system. These drugs work by inhibiting the action of enzymes that bacteria or viruses need, prevent them from spreading, and thus prevent many diseases from becoming any worse. In tre
atments for HIV, the most successful developments to date are the result of the use of enzyme inhibitors.88 Some cancers can also be prevented by identifying the enzymes that benefit them and developing the appropriate inhibitors.
\par Apart from surgery, all fields of medicine are in some way related to enzymes. Dr. Joseph Kraut, who works on models of enzymes magnified 200 million times, summarizes this: 
\par Did you take an aspirin? You may bet that aspirin molecules will go and stimulate an enzyme. This will accelerate or slow down the work of an enzyme and guess what happens next. How quickly! Your headache has already gone.89 
\par Enzyme-inhibitor molecules must exist in the same environment as enzymes, because under certain circumstances, the way they put a halt to
 enzymatic activity can be vital. For example, the activity of enzymes must be brought to an end at a certain point in such processes as DNA replication or blood clotting. If an enzyme is always setting the blood-clotting system in motion, this will lead 
to clots constantly. Then blood flow will be impeded, and the organism will die\emdash if not for enzyme inhibitors. 
\par So how do evolutionists, who are not even able to account for the enzymes' existence, account for this? Even if we do assume that a single enzyme 
did come into being by chance, then enzyme inhibitors must absolutely have come into existence by chance at that same moment. It's absurd for an enzyme to form, then to wait millions of years for a substance that will inhibit it to come into being by chan
ce. In such a scenario, the enzyme would keep on working actively, and the organism would soon die. It is impossible for an organism with enzymes to stay alive in the absence of enzyme inhibitors\emdash 
and of course, enzyme inhibitors have no significance in the 
absence of enzymes. Moreover, even if enzymes exist, there must still be some control mechanism to let the inhibitors reduce their activity. Without it, enzyme inhibitors would immediately block all enzymes, and there would be no point in enzymes emerging
 at all.
\par David and Kenneth Rodabaugh from the Creation Research Society make the following statement: 
\par It is clear that enzymes were not present in the primordial soup. Even if they were formed, they would not have lasted long since the primeval soup was, b
y definition, a conglomeration of nearly every conceivable chemical substance. There would have been innumerable enzyme inhibitors present to inhibit an enzyme as soon as it appeared. Thus, such molecules could not have formed; however, even with the assu
mption that they had formed, they could not have remained.90
\par Our bodies' control mechanism ensures a sufficient number of enzymes and of enzyme inhibitors responsible for inhibiting them, and regulates their production and operation. None of these ever goes
 beyond its own duties. Inhibitors never decide to halt the activity of enzymes on their own; and enzymes never ignore them and thus have an unbalancing effect on the production and operation. The reason is that all the supervision that goes on in the bod
y
 belongs to Allah. Every enzyme is a miracle created by Allah; every enzyme inhibitor is a blessing created by Him. Each of these molecules, the mechanisms that control them, the structures they work alongside, and the special three-dimensional shapes the
y possess all exist because Allah so wills it\emdash and what Allah wills, He carries out to perfection. 
\par }{\f0\fs22\cf1\insrsid6295589 
\par }{\b\f0\fs22\cf1\insrsid16546484\charrsid6295589 He has given you everything you have asked Him for. If you tried to number Allah's blessings, you could never count them. Man is indeed wrongdoing, ungrateful. (Surah Ibrahim: 34) 
\par }\pard \qc \fi567\li0\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid6295589 {\b\f0\fs36\cf1\insrsid16546484\charrsid6295589 Enzyme Technology
\par }\pard \qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid5184933 {\f0\fs22\cf1\insrsid16546484 
\par }{\f0\fs22\cf1\insrsid6295589\charrsid5184933 
\par }{\f0\fs22\cf1\insrsid16546484\charrsid5184933 
Many technologies have been inspired by structures in nature. Cameras and lenses have been developed by mimicking the features of the eyeball, and helicopters have been designed based on features of the dragonfly
. There are many things in nature that continue to inspire technology on a chemical level. 
\par Yet there are also natural substances that we make direct use of in our daily lives. One example is enzymes. Enzymes have been prepared for us in a ready-made form 
in nature and are directly used in industry. The detergents we use in our homes every day are an industrial product developed as the result of the existence of enzymes. Proteases head the list of enzymes used in laundry powders. Their presence is importan
t because, as you now know, proteases are enzymes that break down proteins during digestion. Therefore, they can easily remove protein stains\emdash stains such as grass, blood and egg\emdash 
from your clothing. The protein in these substances generally make these stains adhere tightly among clothing fibers. But these enzymes degrade the proteins causing the stain. 
\par The enzyme lipase, which breaks down fats, also works in detergents, helping dissolve fat or grease stains. Attaching to the fat molecules on clothing, they break them down and convert them into amino acid components.
\par Enzymes are also used in the manufacture of textiles. During the weaving of cotton and cotton-mix fabrics, the long fibers that comprise the cloth are coated with an adhesive substance to prevent 
them from breaking during weaving. The substances employed are starch and starch by-products. Yet once the weaving has been completed, the fabric has to be freed from that starch for subsequent stages. 
\par This can be performed using such harsh chemicals as a
cids, alkalines and oxidants, but today this is an easy matter with enzymes. Amylase breaks down the starch without damaging the fabric. One advantage of this procedure is that it is eco-friendly. The waste water that results is less toxic. 
\par Use is also ma
de of enzymes in improving color quality of fabric. The hairs, or fibrins, that form on the threads are broken down and minimized by enzymes. The enzyme catalase is used for fabrics that are bleached with hydrogen peroxide as pre-treatment before dying. A
s you'll remember, catalase is a fast-working enzyme, and so even a small amount of it is sufficient to eliminate the hydrogen peroxide. 
\par In addition, enzymes are also employed intensively in processing sugar, animal feed, and fruit juice and manufacturing 
paper and leather. For example, various problems arising during the production of fruit juices, particularly apple juice, can be resolved with the help of enzymes. Apple juice contains huge quantities of starch, and is cloudy in its fresh-pressed state. I
f transparent apple juice is desired, that starch has to be broken down\emdash which is effected by introducing starch-dissolving enzymes.
\par But how are enzymes obtained from the natural world? Allah has created a great means of doing so: micro-organisms. Any single micro-organism possesses more than 1,000 different kinds of enzymes\emdash 
a great blessing placed at mankind's industrial disposal. 
\par Scientists collect and study different micro-organisms from different parts of the world in order to obtain different kinds of e
nzymes. This research continues under the microscope until they find an enzyme that performs the desired task. Then the organism that produces that enzyme is altered genetically so that it will produce larger quantities of the enzyme. Subsequently, enzyme
s are extracted by fermenting the micro-organism. The wastes that emerge as a result are used as fertilizer.91 In addition, enzymes can also be obtained from plants, the pancreases of large livestock, and the digestive organs of chickens and oxen.
\par Utilizing
 knowledge and technology, humans have expended enormous efforts to find ways of carrying out these processes. For dissolving starch, for example, rather harsh conditions were formerly necessary. A large number of chemicals were employed, but the resultin
g
 industrial products were not wholly what was desired, and the resulting waste products were generally toxic. However, enzymes work just as if tailor-made for the task. Acting at the site, they locate the relevant starch and entirely do away with it, leav
i
ng behind the amino acids and other constituents, all of which can be safely returned to the natural environment. No human technology can endow a protein with the ability to attack a specific substance and break it down. They cannot teach it to attack a s
ingle fat molecule on a piece of cloth, nor cause it to act in a certain temperature range in such a way as to fulfill people's needs. They cannot make the resulting waste products assume a form that can be recycled and reused. 
\par Human beings cannot even pro
duce the correct sequence of the amino acids that make up a protein. Therefore, to perform all these tasks they use ready-made natural enzymes which have been placed at mankind's disposal. The more research is performed, the more enzymes are discovered, l
iterally gift-wrapped inside micro-organisms as major labor-saving devices, easily located where any scientist can obtain them.
\par This blessing is bestowed by Allah. It has been given to make life easier, as a beauty and a blessing. It is Allah Who creates th
em in micro-organisms, Who gives them their own particular characteristics, Who permits them to be discovered, and Who gives us the ability, knowledge and means with which to study them.
\par 
\par 
\par }{\f0\fs22\cf1\insrsid6295589 
\par }\pard \qc \fi567\li0\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid6295589 {\f0\fs22\cf1\insrsid6295589 \page }{\b\f0\fs36\cf1\insrsid16546484\charrsid6295589 Enzymes are All Miracles }{\b\f0\fs36\cf1\insrsid6295589 
\par }{\b\f0\fs36\cf1\insrsid16546484\charrsid6295589 of Creation
\par }\pard \qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid5184933 {\f0\fs22\cf1\insrsid16546484 
\par }{\f0\fs22\cf1\insrsid6295589\charrsid5184933 
\par }{\f0\fs22\cf1\insrsid16546484\charrsid5184933 Do we, therefore, ever see mutations going about the business of producing new structures for selection to work on? No nascent organ has ever been observed emerging\'85
 Some should be visible today, occurring in organisms at various stages up to integration of a functional new syst
em, but we don't see them: there is no sign at all of this kind of radical novelty. Neither observation nor controlled experiment has shown natural selection manipulating mutations so as to produce a new gene, hormone, enzyme system or organ.92 
\par These word
s, by the evolutionist Michael Pitman, summarize the facts that other evolutionists see clearly, but are unwilling to admit openly. The theory of evolution is based upon two fundamental mechanisms: mutations and natural selection. But as Pitman admits, ne
ither of these mechanisms has ever bestowed a useful, functional organ or structure on any organism, and has never produced one where it did not already exist. 
\par 
\par Leaving aside human organs or anatomical structure, Darwinists have to explain how the human bo
dy as a whole came into existence. The human body is such a complete structure that its entirety is essential for the functioning of even a single molecule. Enzymes, for example, work in tandem with the reactions they carry out, the genes that encode them
,
 the DNA that constitutes those codes, the cells wherein they work, the substrates they will bind to, the bloodstream through which they move, the heart that keeps the blood flowing, and the brain that supplies coordination. A specific body temperature an
d
 specific pH level and countless other factors bind all these together. You cannot remove any of these factors from the equation, nor simplify the system, nor make any changes in the sequences involved. Every component makes up a structure that, as a whol
e, is extraordinarily complex. Evolutionists have no way of accounting for this.
\par That being so, let's return to a single molecule: Do evolutionists have any explanation for enzymes? Is an enzyme\emdash with the particular amino acids it contains; the special seque
nce in which these are arranged; its special three-dimensional shape and its three-dimensional fit with the substrate to which it binds; the way it is able to carry out such a miraculous process as catalysis; its ability to regulate timing; and the way it
 never ages, makes a mistake or takes a rest\emdash is this a structure that can be explained in terms of any Darwinian mechanism? All these observations are certainly inexplicable for evolutionists. 
\par Jon Covey of the Creation Research Society reports an admission on this subject by Richard Dawkins, one of the present day's most passionate advocates of the theory of evolution: 
\par The automobile designer anticipated the need for a carburetor, just as ... God saw the need for the enzyme hexokinase in glycolysis (sugar 
splitting). How is it, incidentally, that we acknowledge an intelligent designer and skilled work-man when we find a simple arrowhead amid similarly shaped pebbles, but some of us find it impossible to admit a master architect when we examine complex livi
n
g creatures? There was a time evolutionists denied that the analogy between designed machinery and biological structures with machine-like functions was invalid. However, this has changed. In The Blind Watchmaker, Richard Dawkins admits that such biologic
al structures do seem to have apparent design. He adamantly denies that they were designed, but at least he admits that they look like they were designed.
\par ... There is no way for blind chance to know that sugar could be a source of energy if properly tapped
. It also would not know what had to be done to take advantage of that energy. How could evolution turn down a pathway and evolve a complicated series of enzymes ... that would give no survival advantage for most of that evolutionary process? Further, unt
i
l the entire set of glycolytic enzymes was developed, the organism evolving the enzyme system would make useless enzymes, which would drain energy and material resources. None of it works until all of it works, not only the glycolytic pathway but in all o
ther enzyme systems found in living cells. 93
\par In fact, the emergence of an enzyme as a result of supposed coincidences conflicts with the theory of evolution's own claims since its existence by itself would be meaningless. According to the imaginary process
 of evolution, in order for an enzyme to be able to come into existence out of nothing, there had to be a pre-existing living body in which it can circulate and function. Yet it is also impossible for a living organism to survive in the absence of enzymes
.
 Therefore, enzymes, the living body in which they will live (and which they themselves keep alive), the enzyme inhibitors that control them, the substrates and all the other attendant molecules must all have evolved at exactly the same time. And that is 
impossible, according to evolutionists, who propose scenarios regarding a single original molecule evolving over the course of millions of years. If enzymes emerged first\emdash 
and it is absolutely out of the question for an enzyme to form itself by chance\emdash it would disappear in the absence of a complete organism in which to function. 
\par On the other hand, if the living organism emerged first\emdash in which case, all its systems and molecules would have to have evolved separately, which is completely impossible\emdash then it cou
ld not have survived in the absence of enzymes. If the enzyme inhibitors emerged first\emdash and again, it is totally impossible for these complex molecules to have formed by chance\emdash 
then they would impede all the enzymatic functions we assume to have emerged. 
\par This is just a brief summary to demonstrate the irreducible complexity inherent in the system. The theory of evolution has no explanation, nor any evidence to offer as to how even a single one of these complex molecules came into being. 
\par As we have seen, ev
olutionists have no explanation to offer concerning the origin of enzymes. Furthermore, they are also far from being able to explain how the amino acids that constitute an enzyme could have assumed their correct sequence by chance. Probability calculation
s show the impossibility of any such correct sequence emerging by chance, even if all the desired conditions are met. As Jon Covey asks:
\par 
\par What are the chances of getting just one simple enzyme only 100 amino acid residues long? There are 20 different amino acids which could be arranged in any combination of ways... The amino acids in this simple enzyme could be arranged 10130 different ways
\emdash that is 10 with 130 zeros. Most of these arrangements would not make good enzymes. Most of them would work very poorly 
or not at all. Sir Arthur Eddington, a British astronomer, calculated there are no more than 1080 particles in the universe. Astronomers believe 90 to 99% of the universe is made of invisible particles called Dark Matter. This might increase the total num
ber to 1082. This includes all the electrons, protons, and neutrons, and many other less familiar subatomic particles. That should give you some idea of how large 10130 is. 
\par It would take a very long time to find by chance the right combination of amino aci
ds to make some-thing as efficient as the enzymes in our bodies. If we let everything in the universe combine and recombine to make these protein chains of 100 amino acid residues at the rate of one trillion times per second, it would take more than 30 tr
i
llion years before all the combinations would have been tried. After these trials we would have just one protein one hundred amino acids long with limited function and no ability to reproduce, for protein does not code for itself, nor is it able to effect
 its own replication.94
\par The probability of obtaining a simple enzyme consisting of 100 amino acids at random are 1 in 10130. However, we also need to remember that this protein must consist of left-handed amino acids only. (In nature, there are two kinds of
 amino acids: left and right-handed, but only left-handed ones play any role in the living cell.) This means that the probability declines still further: 
\par What are the chances of a million-dollar laboratory correctly synthesizing left-hand amino acids for one small protein molecule? It is 1 in 10210. That is 1 with 210 zeros after it. 
\par To properly understand the immense size of these impossible chances, consider this: 
\par Ten billion years is 1018 seconds. The earth weighs 1026 ounces. The entire universe has a diameter of only 1028 inches. There are 1080 elementary (subatomic) particles in the universe.95
\par When compared with the largest numbers in the universe, the impossibility of a single enzyme emerging by chance can clearly be seen. 
\par No matter how impossible it may be, let us assume that amino acids were able to assume the correct sequence and form an enzyme. The possibility of that enzyme accelerating a reaction by becoming involved in it\emdash 
in other words, the probability of it being functional\emdash represents an even greater difficulty for evolutionists. Dr. Jonathan D. Sarfati of the Creation Science Foundation has calculated that probability as follows:
\par Even the simplest self-reproducing organism has 482 genes coding for enzymes about 400 amino acids long on ave
rage. Each enzyme must have a precise sequence to function properly. There are 20 different types of amino acid used in enzymes. Even if only 10 units had to be exactly right in each enzyme, the chance of getting the full set by ordinary random polymerisa
tion reactions is one in 106271 (one followed by 6271 zeroes). This is indeed effectively nil when one realizes that the number of atoms in the universe is only about 1080.96 
\par The probability of a single reaction coming about by chance is zero. Even if, despite all the impossibilities, we assume, that a single enzyme did come into existence by chance and happened to carry out a reaction\emdash no matter how impossible that is
\emdash the same impossibility still applies to the genes needed to transmit the information coding for that enzyme to subsequent generations. The impossibility of that happening by chance has been calculated too:
\par Evolutionists say that man evolved from a one-celled organism, purely by chance. Yet it has been calculated that the probability of forming 
a single protein molecule by chance is one in 10243 (10 with 242 zeroes behind it.) Furthermore, even if the world were covered by an ocean a mile deep containing 1033 bacteria, scientists say it would take more than 100 billion years for them to produce 
a
 single new enzyme. And even if they produced a gene to manufacture this new enzyme, six million generations would have to elapse for the gene to spread throughout the species by the process of survival of the fittest. The above is the time needed to deve
l
op a typical non-useful enzyme. For a single useful enzyme to appear, it would take three hundred million years! This points out the improbability that even one-celled fully functional organisms developed by pure chance. If so many chance occurrences and 
s
o much time were needed to form just a single useful enzyme, imagine how many coincidences and how many eons would be required for the one cell to evolve into billion-celled man! No one could possibly calculate the odds against this happening by chance. Y
et, the evolutionists ask us to swallow this whole.97
\par The probabilities show the impossibility of claims regarding chance formation. Moreover, countless reactions take place in microseconds in the very bodies of those who carry out such research and maintai
n that all these things happened coincidentally! Thousands of reactions one second, thousands the next . . . this continues on in every living body, without pause or error. 
\par Every second, reactions takes place and at specific speed and in a specific order 
inside every living body. No enzyme is ever confused with another, or acts on any other structure, or seeks to match the reaction rate of another enzyme. Enzymes never head in the wrong direction, but act at the right time and stop acting at the right tim
e
. The amino acids contained in every enzyme have been determined, are all in the proper order and in the right place. All the enzymes in the living body have the correct three-dimensional shape, never bind to the wrong substrates, and never become involve
d in the wrong reaction. 
\par The enzymes in any living body behave as if they were conscious and intelligent, just like cautious human beings. They do all they can to keep their body metabolizing and healthy.
\par For these and many other similar reasons it is impo
ssible for enzymes to have come into being by chance. Amino acids cannot combine to form the correct sequence by chance, nor coincidentally give rise to an active site on the enzyme with a tertiary structure. Chance cannot give rise to substrates that mat
c
h the active sites, nor direct these towards specific reactions. Chance cannot endow an enzyme with any ability, nor bestow on it the capacity to perform in a tenth of a second a reaction that normally would take tens of millions of years. Chance cannot m
ake an enzyme ideally suited to the organism, nor endow it with the ability to keep that organism alive. Chance is no explanation for the literally conscious behavior that enzymes exhibit in the living body.
\par The fact that molecules do behave in a conscious 
manner in the body shows that it is the work of a sublime Creator. Every structure and every molecule in the living body is the work of Allah, Creator of all things. That is why all structures are so compatible and mutually dependent. It is Allah, Lord of
 
the worlds, Who creates organisms in their finest possible form, gives them their characteristics, bestows an astonishing complexity on even the smallest components within them, and creates them in a very wide variety. No created entity can bring into bei
n
g any thing of beauty to compare with the miracles created by Him, nor produce the flawless order and harmony produced by Him. No intelligence on Earth, no technology, no power can produce the living systems created by Allah with their perfect mechanisms.
 That is because every perfection we see is the artistry of Allah, His creation and His glorious might.
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj \fi567\li0\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid6295589 {\f0\fs22\cf1\insrsid6295589 \page }{\b\f0\fs36\cf1\insrsid16546484\charrsid6295589 Conclusion
\par }\pard \qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid5184933 {\f0\fs22\cf1\insrsid16546484\charrsid5184933 
\par 
\par Unconscious atoms cannot combine together to produce eyeballs that provide a sharper image than even the most highly advanced television
 screens. Unconscious atoms cannot join together by chance to make an auditory system better than even the highest-quality tape deck or stereo set. Unconscious atoms cannot feel or taste a delicious meal. Unconscious atoms cannot perceive the scent of a r
ose. Unconscious atoms have no power to make one another do anything. 
\par Unconscious atoms cannot bring about human beings who run, laugh, think and examine their own cells under the microscope. They cannot develop a circulatory system that nourishes their ev
ery cell, a digestive system that converts everything they eat into new cells, nor a brain that issues instructions to the entire body. Unconscious atoms cannot give rise to enzymes that work faster than the best equipment in laboratories, which break dow
n
 foodstuffs and converts them into smaller components, which are capable of copying DNA, which eliminate waste products, which transmit messages and carry out hundreds of thousands of reactions in each of the body's 100 trillion cells, each and every seco
nd. 
\par But Darwinists are reluctant to accept this evident truth. They regard the way that an enzyme possesses an exceedingly complex and superior structure, how it reduces processes that should take millions of years to fractions of a second, as supposed mir
acles of chance. They maintain that unseeing, unhearing, unfeeling and unconscious atoms somehow communicate when they join together, recognize other molecules and are capable of working together with them. They claim that chance represents the supposed o
r
igins of the seeing, hearing, feeling human beings that emerged as a result of these biological structures. Darwinists believe that this power brought mountains, seas and all life forms into being. The force in question, chance, is a false deity that Darw
inists imagine brings about complex entities and works miracles. That is the spell under which Darwinists have put themselves. 
\par This false system of belief lies at the heart of the worst mass deception of the last two centuries. 
\par This book has provided a single example in order to lift that spell and put an end to this terrible deception. This book you are reading has offered many pages of detail about this single example\emdash 
enzymes. Even a single enzyme is enough to totally dispel the dark spell of Darwinism. 
Even a single detail of how enzymes operate evidently reveals the infinite might, intelligence, creative artistry and Divine Power of Almighty Allah. There is intelligence in everything that enzymes do. Every ability possessed by enzymes is distinguished 
and unique, declaring that Allah, Lord of the worlds, created them. The fact of creation is revealed in the most glorious manner. 
\par Allah is Magnificent and Almighty. He has the power to create from nothing. All entities are obedient to Him. He creates unbou
nded beauty and detail in all He so chooses. It is He Who manifests perfection in all He desires. It is an easy matter for Almighty Allah, Creator of all the worlds, to create an enzyme system that exhibits such perfection. Allah is the Lord of all things
. We are told this in a verse: }{\f0\fs22\cf1\insrsid16546484 
\par }{\f0\fs22\cf1\insrsid6295589\charrsid5184933 
\par }{\b\f0\fs22\cf1\insrsid16546484\charrsid6295589 He is Allah\emdash there is no deity but Him. He is the Knower of the Unseen and the Visible. He is the All-Merciful, the Most Merciful. He is Allah\emdash 
there is no deity but Him. He is the King, the Most Pure, the Perfect Peace, the Trustworthy, the Safeguarder, the Almighty, the Compeller, the Supremely Great. Glory be to Allah above all they associate with Him. He is Allah\emdash 
the Creator, the Maker, the Giver of Form. To Him belong the Most Beautiful Names. Everything in the heavens and Earth glorifies Him. He is the Almighty, the All-Wise. (Surat al-Hashr: 22-24)
\par }{\f0\fs22\cf1\insrsid16546484\charrsid5184933 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid6295589 {\f0\fs22\cf1\insrsid6295589 \page }{\b\f0\fs36\cf1\insrsid16546484\charrsid6295589 NOTES
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid6295589 {\f0\fs22\cf1\insrsid6295589 
\par 
\par }{\f0\fs22\cf1\insrsid16546484\charrsid5184933 1 http://www.tuberose.com/ Enzymes.html
\par 2 Dr. Edward Howell, Enzyme Nutrition "The Food Enzyme Concept," Avery, 1985, p. 33
\par 3 "Information on Digestion," http://www.laidlawcorp.com/industrial/eisenrsr.html
\par 4 Dr. Edward Howell, Enzyme Nutrition "The Food Enzyme Concept," Avery, 1985, p. 3
\par 5 Prof. Dr. Ali Demirsoy, Ya\'feam\'fdn Temel Kurallar\'fd (Fundamental Laws of Life), Meteksan, Volume I, Part I, 5th edition, 1993, p. 55
\par 6 Helena Curtis, N. Sue Barnes, Invitation to Biology, Worth Publishers, Inc., 4th edition, pp. 109-110
\par 7 T. W. Graham Solomons, Organic Chemistry, Jonh Wiley and Sons, Inc., 5th edition, p. 1125
\par 8 http://www.anyvitamins.com/enzymes-info.htm
\par 9 Dr. Edward Howell, Enzyme Nutrition "The Food Enzyme Concept," Avery, 1985, p. 32
\par 10 B. Salisbury, "Doubts about the Modern Synthetic Theory of Evolution," American Biology Teacher, September 1971, pp. 336-338 11http://www.pathlights.com/ce_encyclopedia/Encyclopedia/08dna02.htm
\par 12 Sir Fred Hoyle, The Intelligent Universe, New York: Holt, Rinehart & Winston, 1983, pp. 20-21
\par 13 Biological Science "A Molecular Approach," BSCS Blue Version, 6th edition, D.C. Health Company, p. 36
\par 14 S. Aw, CEN Tech. J., Vol. 10, No. 3, p. 303, 1996, (see Fred Hoyle, The Intelligent Universe, Michael Joseph: London, p. 16, 1983)
\par 15 Bilim ve Teknik (Science and Technique), Tubitak Publications, January 1994, pp. 42-43
\par 16 http://www.yildizindunyasi.net/bilim%20dunyasi/proteinler-1.htm
\par 17 Duane Gish, Ph.D., "Thermodynamics and the Origin of Life (Part II)," Impact; http://www.icr.org/article/140/
\par 18 Molecular Biology of the Cell, Alberts \endash  Johnson \endash  Lewis \endash  Raff \endash  Roberts - Walter, 4th edition, Garland Science, 2002, pp. 77-78
\par 19 Ibid., p. 78
\par 20 Biological Science "A Molecular Approach," BSCS Blue Version, 6th edition, D.C. Health Company, p. 36
\par 21 http://www.genetikbilimi.com/genbilim/enzimler.htm
\par 22 http://stu.inonu.edu.tr/~e0499160/odev.html
\par 23 Gary Parker, Creation: Facts of Life, 6th ed., 1994, p.28, Master Books, Green Forest, AR.; http://www.trueorigin.org/dawkinfo.asp
\par 24 Isaac Asimov, The Genetic Code,\~The Orion Press, New York, 1962, pp. 27\endash 28
\par 25 Fred Hoyle, "The Big Bang in Astronomy," New Scientist, vol. 92, no. 1280, November 19, 1981, pp. 521-527.
\par 26 Molecular Cell Biology, 4th edition, Media Connected, 2000, p. 75
\par 27 http://www.genetikbilimi.com/genbilim/enzimler.htm
\par 28 Arthur C. Guyton and John E. Hall, T\'fdbbi Fizyoloji (Medical Physiology), Nobel T\'fdp Kitabevleri, 1996, p. 35
\par 29 Molecular Biology of the Cell, Alberts \endash  Johnson \endash  Lewis \endash  Raff \endash  Roberts - Walter, 4th edition, Garland Science, 2002, p. 76
\par 30 Bilim ve Teknik (Science and Technique), Tubitak Yay\'fdnlar\'fd, November 1989, p. 47
\par 31 Molecular Biology of the Cell, Alberts \endash  Johnson \endash  Lewis \endash  Raff \endash  Roberts - Walter, 4th edition, Garland Science, 2002, pp. 75-76
\par 32 http://www.tuberose.com/Enzymes.html
\par 33 http://www-biol.paisley.ac.uk/courses/stfunmac/glossary/enzymes.html
\par 34 http://www.anyvitamins.com/enzymes-info.htm
\par 35 http://sizinti.com.tr/konu.sizinti?SIN=71803cb921&k=546&2017433805
\par 36 Carl Sagan, "Life" in Encyclopedia Britannica: Macropaedia (1974 ed.), pp. 893-894
\par 37 Harry R. Matthews, Ph.D., Cell and Molecular Biology (Biol. Chem. 410A) Lecture #5, October 2, 1996 10:00 a.m.
\par 38 http://www.madsci.org/posts/archives/sep99/938519528.Bc.r.html
\par 39 http://www.genetikbilimi.com/genbilim/enzimler.htm
\par 40 http://sizinti.com.tr/konu.sizinti?SIN=71803cb921&k=546&2017433805
\par 41Duane Gish, Ph.D., "Crack in the Neo-Darwinian Jericho Part II," Impact; http://www.icr.org/article/89/
\par 42 "Without Enzyme Catalyst, Slowest Known Biological Reaction Takes 1 Trillion Years," May 6, 2003, http://www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2003/05/030506073321.htm
\par 43 Ibid.
\par 44 Ibid.
\par 45 http://www.newton.dep.anl.gov/askasci/bio00/bio00010.htm
\par 46 "Kinetics: Enzyme Catalysis," 
\par http://www.wpi.edu/Academics/Depts/Chemistry/Courses/General/kinenzyme.html
\par 47 www.ndmnutrition.com/enzymes/
\par 48 "What do enzymes do?", http://www.suzannes.com/whatdoendo.html
\par 49 Dr. Edward Howell, Enzyme Nutrition "The Food Enzyme Concept," Avery Publishing, 1985, p. 34
\par 50 http://www.bodybuilding.com/fun/knopfler8.htm
\par 51 http://www.tuberose.com/Enzymes.html
\par 52 Dr. Edward Howell, Enzyme Nutrition "The Food Enzyme Concept," Avery Publishing, 1985, p. 34
\par 53 Bilim ve Teknik (Science and Technique), October 1999, p. 75
\par 54 http://www.genetikbilimi.com/genbilim/enzimler.htm
\par 55 http://www.genetikbilimi.com/genbilim/enzimler.htm
\par 56 "Enzymes," http://www.juiceguy.com/Enzymes-how-to-get-more.shtml
\par 57 Dr. Edward Howell, Enzyme Nutrition "The Food Enzyme Concept," Avery Publishing, 1985, p. 49
\par 58 Ibid., p. 6
\par 59 Ibid., p. 9
\par 60 Martin Berg, Biology, Solomon, Villee, 3rd edition, p. 965
\par 61 Biological Science "A Molecular Approach," BSCS Blue Version, 6th edition, D.C. Health Company, pp. 410-411
\par 62 http://www.kubacami.org/konular/organlarimiz/mide.htm
\par 63 http://www.sabah.com.tr/cp/iyi101-20041114-102.html
\par 64 http://www.daghanoves.netfirms.com/din/insan/insan4.htm
\par 65 Arthur C. Guyton and John E. Hall, T\'fdbbi Fizyoloji (Medical Physiology), Nobel T\'fdp Kitabevleri, 1996, p. 824
\par 66 Dr. Edward Howell, Enzyme Nutrition "The Food Enzyme Concept," Avery Publishing, 1985, p. 81
\par 67 "In Defense of the Irreducibility of the Blood Clotting Cascade:
\par Response to Russell Doolittle, Ken Miller and Keith Robison," Michael J. Behe, July 31, 2000; http://www.arn.org/docs/behe/mb_indefenseofbloodclottingcascade.htm
\par 68 Molecular Biology of the Cell, Alberts \endash  Johnson \endash  Lewis \endash  Raff \endash  Roberts - Walter, 4th edition, Garland Science, 2002, p. 245
\par 69 Leslie E. Orgel, "The Origin of Life on the Earth," Scientific American, vol. 271 (October 1994), p.\~78.
\par 70 http://omerfaruk.itgo.com/enzimler.htm
\par 71 http://users.rcn.com/jkimball.ma.ultranet/BiologyPages/D/DNArepair.html
\par 72 Dr Jean Lightner, "Special tools of life," 12 May 2004, http://www.answersingenesis.org/docs2004/0512tools.asp#n1
\par 73 Rich Deem, "Is the Chemical Origin of Life (Abiogenesis) a Realistic Scenario?", www.godandscience.org/evolution/chemlife.html
\par 74 Charles McCombs, Ph.D., "Evolution Hopes You Don't Know Chemistry: The Problem with Chirality," Impact; http://www.icr.org/article/105/
\par 75 Frank B. Salisbury, American Biology Teacher, Sept. 1971, p. 338
\par 76 Duane Gish, Ph.D., "Crack in the Neo-Darwinian Jericho Part II," Impact; http://www.icr.org/article/89/
\par 77 Caryl P. Haskins, "Advances and Challenges in Science in 1970," American Scientist, vol. 59 (May/June 1971), p. 305.
\par 78 http://www.tuberose.com/Enzymes.html
\par 79 Harper'\'fdn Biyokimyas\'fd (Harper's Biochemistry), Robert K. Murray, Peter A. Mayes, Darly K. Granner, Victor W. Rodwell, Bar\'fd\'fe Kitabevi, 1993, p. 492
\par 80 "The DNA - Enzyme System is Irreducibly Complex," http://www.ideacenter.org/contentmgr/showdetails.php/id/845
\par 81 Rich Deem, "Origin of life: latest theories/problems," http://www.godandscience.org/evolution/rnamodel.html
\par 82 Leslie E. Orgel, "The Origin of Life on the Earth," Scientific American, vol. 271, October 1994, p.\~78.
\par 83 http://www.tuberose.com/Enzymes.html
\par 84 http://www.supplementwatch.com/supatoz/supplement.asp?supplementId=309
\par 85 Harper'\'fdn Biyokimyas\'fd (Harper's Biochemistry), Robert K. Murray, Peter A. Mayes, Darly K. Granner, Victor W. Rodwell, Bar\'fd\'fe Kitabevi, 1993, p. 783
\par 86 James Perloff, "The case against Darwin," February 20, 2001, http://www.worldnetdaily.com/news/article.asp?ARTICLE_ID=21776
\par 87 "How Enzymes Work," http://www.biologycorner.com/bio3/notes-enzymes.html
\par 88 "Enzymes as Biological Catalysts," http://www.chemistry.wustl.edu/~edudev/LabTutorials/HIV
\par /DrugStrategies.html#Enzymes
\par 89 Bilim ve Teknik (Science and Technique), Tubitak Yay\'fdnlar\'fd, May 1972, Volume 54, p. 6
\par 90 David and Kenneth Rodabaugh, Creation Research Society Quarterly, December 1990, p. 107; http://www.pathlights.com/ce_encyclopedia/Encyclopedia/07prim04.htm
\par 91 Bilim ve Teknik (Science and Technique), Tubitak Yay\'fdnlar\'fd, October 1999, pp. 74-80
\par 92 Michael Pitman, Adam and Evolution, London: Rider& Co., 1984, pp.\~67\endash 68.
\par 93 Jon Covey, "Chemistry Refutes Chance Origin of Life: Part I,"
\par http://www.creationinthecrossfire.org/Articles/ChemistryRefutes1.html
\par 94 Ibid.
\par 95 http://www.pathlights.com/ce_encyclopedia/Encyclopedia/08dna02.htm
\par 96 "Refutation of Boyce Rensberger's anti-creationist Washington Post article," http://www.answersingenesis.org/docs/522.asp
\par 97 http://achim.org/Philosophy/q05.htm}{\f0\fs22\cf1\insrsid10621866\charrsid5184933 
\par }\pard \qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid5184933 {\f0\fs22\insrsid10621866\charrsid5184933 \page 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par }\pard \qc \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid13073981 {\f0\fs22\insrsid10621866\charrsid5184933 An enzyme is a chemical miracle in which more than a hundred microscopic molecules 
come together in a three-dimensional structure, whose details are difficult to fully comprehend. The purpose of enzymes is to accelerate all bodily processes, essential for your ability to blink, move your muscles, see and digest\emdash 
in short, to stay alive. Even as you read these lines, billions of these chemical micro-devices are working away, performing an incredible number of processes simultaneously\emdash 
initiating all the countless functions essential for your living, minute by minute.
\par This book demonstrates the blessings imparted by Allah in creating the miraculous structures and functions of enzymes. He has made 
these microscopic enzymes as structures by which He reveals His sovereignty over all living things. All the miracles exhibited through the function of enzymes extol His matchless artistry.
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par ABOUT THE AUTHOR: Adnan Oktar, who writes under the pen-name Harun 
Yahya, was born in Ankara in 1956. He studied arts at Istanbul's Mimar Sinan University, and philosophy at Istanbul University. Since the 1980s, the author has published many books on political, faith-related and scientific issues. Greatly appreciated all
 
around the world, these works have been instrumental in helping many to return their faith in Allah, and, in many others, to gain a deeper insight into their faith. Harun Yahya's books appeal to all kinds of readers, regardless of their age, race, or nati
onality, for they focus on one objective: to broaden the reader's perspective by encouraging him or her to think about a number of critical issues, such as the existence of Allah and His unity, and to live by the values He prescribed for them.
\par }\pard \qj \fi567\li0\ri170\sl-320\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin0\itap0\pararsid5184933 {\f0\fs22\insrsid10621866\charrsid5184933 
\par }{\f0\fs22\insrsid16546484\charrsid5184933 
\par }}